hyundai-grand-i10-nios
The sensible Hyundai Grand i10 Nios gets more flash for a bit more cash.
In a world of SUV this and electric that, cars like this Hyundai Grand i10 Nios seem to fly under the radar. In fact, Hyundai itself didn’t make half as much noise about this facelifted Nios as it did about the arrival of the updated Venue a couple of months ago. But let’s give the very sensible and very likeable Grand i10 Nios due space and talk of what’s changed.
An enlarged grille, reprofiled bumpers and new LED DRLs are part of the facelift.
Of course, a facelift today means a larger grille, and that’s what you get on the Nios too. The grille makes up most of the redone front bumper and there are new tri-arrow daytime running lights lower down as well. There are no changes to the headlights or bonnet but a close look will reveal a flatter, satin finished Hyundai logo in place of the 3D chrome one from before.
At the sides, it’s just the new design for the 15-inch diamond-cut alloy wheels that tells you this is the updated Nios. Styling at the back, though, has been jazzed up. The bootlid is reprofiled but what’s more prominent are the reshaped tail-lights that are linked by a band, something that’s trending now. But while the tail-lamps also get updated with LED elements, the band is merely a reflector and doesn’t light up. In all, the visual tweaks sure make the Grand i10 Nios a bit more eye-catching.
Digital speedo has been dropped in favour of new analogue dials.
There are fewer changes inside. Lighter colours, new upholstery and a new instrument cluster with analogue dials (the last one had a digital speedometer) help the look in what is a practical and well thought out interior. Things like the relatively high-set seating, well-positioned touchscreen and loads of storage space mean the Grand i10 Nios remains a car that puts you at immediate ease.
As before, the Grand i10 Nios comes feature-packed in higher-spec avatars. Keyless entry, push-button start, auto climate control, an 8.0-inch touchscreen with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a wireless phone charger and rear AC vents are part of the package on the top-spec Asta trim featured here. Feature additions in this update include a Type-C USB charging port and cruise control, though it’s the longer list of safety equipment that’s noteworthy. Front and side airbags are now standard across the range, while top-spec versions also add in curtain airbags.
Electronic stability control, hill start assist, tyre pressure monitoring system and ISOFIX child-seat mounts are other inclusions on higher spec trims, all of which go above safety regulation norms. As before, the rear section remains surprisingly spacious for two occupants, while the 260-litre boot can accommodate a large suitcase with ease.
The 1.2-litre engine in petrol or CNG-spec is now the only powertrain offered on the hatchback.
With the update, Hyundai has trimmed the Grand i10 Nios’ engine line-up further. The diesel was dropped early last year, while the Turbo variant with the fun 1.0-turbo-petrol engine has also been axed, leaving the 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol as the sole engine on offer. It’s available with a 5-speed manual gearbox or a 5-speed AMT, and there’s a CNG derivative too.
The engine has been made future-ready to meet the upcoming RDE (real world driving emission) norms and can also run on E20, which is petrol with a 20 percent ethanol blend. In driving feel, there’s no difference. It’s a refined and easygoing engine with sufficient power for city driving. It’s not got the pep or responsiveness of Maruti’s K12 1.2 petrol but it gets the job done.
Helping the Grand i10 Nios’ case as a city car is its light steering, easy manoeuvrability and pleasant ride. For added convenience, you can opt for the AMT but the standard-fit 5-speed manual gearbox is light and friendly to use too. The Grand i10 Nios sees a slight price increase but, as before, slots in between the more affordable Tata Tiago and the pricier Maruti Suzuki Swift, both of which also get AMT options and CNG versions.

We’ll bring the rivals together soon but for now, I can say that the revised styling does its job to refresh the Grand i10 Nios, though it’s the added safety features that are the bigger draw. As a package, the Grand i10 Nios remains a sensible family hatchback that’s home in the city.
Also see:
Hyundai Grand i10 Nios facelift video review
Hyundai Grand i10 Nios facelift image gallery
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
The Hyundai Grand i10 Nios and Volkswagen Polo have received new 1.0-litre turbo-petrol engines this year. We tell you the pick of the driver-oriented hatchbacks.
The Hyundai Grand i10 Nios and the Volkswagen Polo are not cars that you’d typically see in a head-to-head comparison but there’s a reason we have both of them today. Both of these models are now available with the option of 1.0-litre, three-cylinder, direct-injection turbo-petrol engines and said versions of both cost about the same money too. The Grand i10 Nios Turbo, in dual-tone guise, comes in at Rs 7.81 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi) while VW’s celebratory offers mean the Polo 1.0 TSI Highline Plus can be had for Rs 7.89 lakh. So, the duo is comparable on price but how they compare on spice is what we’re interested to know.
Do note, this isn’t a straight-jacketed hatchback comparo. The Polo and Grand i10 are available with naturally-aspirated engines at lower price points too. These very versions? They’re for small car buyers who don’t mind spending more for added power, and so they shall be judged. In power and torque, it’s the Polo with the slight upper hand, with 110hp and 175Nm to the Grand i10 Nios Turbo’s figures of 100hp and 171Nm. But how do the numbers translate in the real world?
Let’s talk of the elephant in the room first. The Polo is a decade-old car. Sure, the shape has aged well and there is a hard-wearing look to everything inside the cabin, but the dashboard is dated and even the analog dials give the car’s vintage away. However, that reassuring thunk on door shut that talks volumes on build quality is something you won’t get bored of.
If age is just a number to you, you’ll appreciate how the new engine has transformed the Polo. Volkswagen’s 1.0 TSI engine is an International Engine of the Year Award winner and spend some time with one and you’ll understand why. This is a small car with a big punch. There’s a rush of power at about 2,000rpm that stays till 6,000rpm and beyond. You’ll enjoy extending the engine, and getting in a quick shift on the 6-speed gearbox is deeply satisfying too. A sub-10sec 0-100kph time also gives the Polo the right street cred.
There’s much fun to be had on an open road where other elements of the Polo also come into play. It turns diligently, there’s a good feeling of connect at the flat-bottomed steering wheel and there’s lots of grip so you can really exploit what this hatchback has to offer. Helping here are the brakes that are well calibrated and there’s also a certain heft to the Volkswagen that gives you so much confidence at high speeds. Who said a 10-year-old car can’t be a fun car?
There are some points to bring up about what the Polo is like in humdrum everyday drives. Part-throttle responses are decent and the Polo picks up speed quite easily from about 1,200rpm or so. But if you want a bit more or want to make a quick overtake, you will have to be mindful to be in the right gear. Speaking of which, there is more effort needed on the Polo’s gearbox and the clutch is longer in travel too. There’s also a slight firmness to the ride in town. The Polo does ride on larger 16-inch rims.
Over to the Grand i10 Nios. And first things first, it is the easier car to drive in town. The Hyundai’s engine is a little bit friendlier, granting you access to power at a lower RPM. What you’ll also note is that the Grand i10 Nios has the softer setup and rounds off the bumps better than the Polo. And in town, you will appreciate the lighter steering weight too. But that’s not entirely what this version of the Nios is about.
If you’re familiar with the standard 1.2-litre Nios petrol you will notice the added grunt on this one. This is a proper mid-range, it feels more energetic throughout the powerband and just makes overtaking that whole lot easier. There’s no comparison between standard and turbo Grand i10 Nios in flat-out performance, with the 9.82sec 0-100kph time being the headline figure here, bettering the Polo’s time, if only just. The Hyundai Grand i10 Nios does feel quite different to drive through the gears. The Nios Turbo doesn’t rev as quickly as the Polo does and that’s down to the Hyundai’s use of a 5-speed gearbox and taller ratios. Third gear, for instance, is good for 164kph! You can wind the Hyundai engine pretty hard, and you’ll like how the friendly Nios changes character when you do so. Turn-in is also nice and the overall feeling is of being in a cheeky little car that can liven up boring commutes.
It’s outside city limits that the Nios Turbo trails the Polo. The Hyundai doesn’t feel as tied down as the VW, the steering feels inconsistent when you’re around the corners and grip levels are down too. Truth is, it’s the Nios’ tyres that give up well before the chassis does. There is also more of that three-cylinder thrum in the Nios though, and in general, the cabin is noisier than the Polo’s.
Of the other things, the Grand i10 Nios Turbo does give you a better view of the road and the high-set position of the touchscreen also puts you at immediate ease. The black cabin and red detailing also do their bit to add some flavor to the Nios Turbo’s cabin.
There are other areas of difference too. Talking features, the Polo TSI Highline Plus and Grand i10 Nios Turbo Sportz get auto climate control and touchscreens with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. The Hyundai gets a wireless mobile phone charger but disappointingly missing altogether on the sole variant of the Nios Turbo is a rear wiper. Sure, the touchscreen can relay the feed from the rear camera on the go but, on rainy days, this is a compromise, at best. It’s the Polo that actually packs in more with cruise control, auto-dimming mirrors and rain-sensing wipers. Steering reach adjust, a rear wiper and even auto up-down for all four windows are also offered only on the Polo. Neither car gets push-button start-stop or keyless entry. In terms of safety, both cars get dual airbags, ABS and rear parking sensors.
When Global NCAP crash tested theVW Polo back in 2014, it achieved a 4-star rating, while the Grand i10 Nios was tested more recently,achieving a 2-star ratingin the safety ratings organisation's tests.
You’ve seen these cars before, so I won’t go deep into the looks. The Polo does look like the more wholesome car. It is larger and longer in wheelbase, too, but rear-seat space is quite limited. It’s the Nios Turbo that offers greater legroom and there’s also more headroom, thanks to the higher roof. Sadly, the Nios Turbo only gets small, fixed headrests at the back. In terms of luggage space, both cars offer enough room for a weekend trip’s worth of bags.

So which hatchback should it be? It depends on what you give more weightage to. If you are primarily looking for an easy-going city commuter that also has a sporty side, the Grand i10 Nios Turbo is the one for you. The Hyundai feels more modern and is also the more practical pick by virtue of its roomier interior. But if you are the sort who looks forward to long drives out of town and are okay to buy an old car with a new heart, the Polo with its zingier engine and big car dynamics is the model of greater interest.
Which type of buyer are you?
Also see:
Hyundai Grand i10 Nios secures two stars in Global NCAP crash tests
Volkswagen Polo, Vento get connected car tech
All-new Hyundai micro SUV takes shape
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Can the new turbo-petrol engine from the Venue make the Nios more exciting to drive?
ThinkHyundai Grand i10 Niosand you’d picture a practical, sophisticated, feature-loaded family car; sporty and exciting aren’t words that you’d associate with it. But Hyundai is working towards changing that perception withthis hot new turbocharged petrol version.
This Turbo version of the Nios is powered by a 1.0-litre, three-cylinder, turbo-petrol engine that made its debut in theHyundai Venue, and is also available with sedans like the Verna and Aura. The Nios Turbo is based on the Sportz Dual Tone (DT) variant of the regular Nios with which it shares its features list, interiors and its exterior design; and it commands apremium of Rs 95,000-1,00,000over the comparable 1.2-litre petrol engine. So, is the Nios Turbo exciting enough to justify that premium?
Save for a fully blacked-out trapezoidal front grille featuring a ‘Turbo’ badge, there isn’t anything to tell this version apart from a regular dual-tone Nios. This turbo variant gets an optional two-tone paint shade with blacked-out roof and pillars (priced Rs 5,000 higher than the single tone), projector headlamps with LED DRLs, roof rails, and wide 175/60 tyres with 15-inch alloys from the top-spec Asta variant (as compared to the 165/65 R14 tyres available on the Sportz single-tone variant). The boot now wears an extra ‘Turbo’ badge, in addition to the ‘Grand i10’, ‘Nios’ and ‘Sportz’ badges.
Like the exteriors, the interiors get mere cosmetic changes, which are standard on the DT version. Red highlights around the air-vents and the rotary AC controls, as well as red stitching and piping on the seats, add a touch of sportiness to the all-black interiors. Although there aren’t any Turbo-specific changes to the interiors, the gear lever gives this one away, due to its reverse gear positioning that is besides the first gear, as opposed to being besides the fourth gear in the standard Nios. Cosmetic changes aside, the interiors are spacious and nicely put together with high-quality plastics. And this remains a practical cabin with a very user-friendly layout.
In terms of equipment, the Turbo features a leather-wrapped steering, climate control, a part-digital instrument cluster, touchscreen with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, reverse camera, projector headlamps with LED DRLs, remote-key entry, and wireless charging. Compared to the top-spec Asta variant of the standard Nios, it misses out some convenience features like a push-button start and keyless entry, and some crucial bits like a rear wiper and washer.
As mentioned earlier, this is the same 998cc, three-cylinder turbo-petrol engine that made its debut in the Hyundai Venue, but the only difference is that in the Nios, it makes 100hp – 20hp lesser than the compact SUV – but still produces an identical 172Nm of torque. With a sub-1-tonne kerb weight, power-to-weight and torque-to-weight ratios are better than any other affordable petrol hatchback in the market today.
This engine is smooth and refined, as far as three-cylinder motors go, but it isn’t completely vibration-free, especially at idle, when compared to its 1.2-litre four-cylinder naturally aspirated counterpart. When spun faster, this motor does get a bit thrummy, although the sound isn’t excessively loud or coarse.
Those used to driving non-turbo cars will need to get accustomed to this turbo petrol engine, as on-tap responses aren’t as sharp as a larger naturally aspirated engine, and small-capacity turbo engines like this one need to be spun a bit to build the boost and bring them into their zone. You will do well by keeping the revs above 1,800rpm as that’s where the turbo starts singing, and there’s a nice second wind of power once the tachometer needle crosses 3,000rpm. Between 2,000-5,000rpm is this engine’s sweet spot, and it feels very gutsy and far more capable than the 1.2-litre petrol, especially while overtaking out on the highway. While it isn’t as free-revving as Volkswagen’s 1.0-litre TSI motor, it will spin to 6,600rpm in the first three gears, maxing out at 101kph in second gear and at 164kph in third gear, which goes to show how tall-geared this version is. Flat-out, it will even go on to hit a top speed of 183kph.
And while on the topic of outright performance, this is currently the fastest accelerating mass-market hatchback on sale in India. It out-accelerates theVolkswagen Polo 1.0 TSI(which was the previous fastest) to 100kph and it even reaches 160kph a full second quicker. Even through the gears, especially in the fourth, from 40-100kph, the Nios is 0.88sec quicker. Even when you consider smaller bursts of acceleration like 20-40kph in second gear, 40-60kph in third, or even 60-80kph in fourth, the Nios noses ahead when compared to the Volkswagen. TheNios’ standard 1.2-litre petrol versionisn’t even in the same league in terms of performance. To put it into perspective, the Turbo accelerates 3.46sec, 0.7sec and 8.59sec faster than the naturally aspirated petrol from 0-100kph, 20-80kph in third and 40-100kph in fourth, respectively.
Hyundai Grand i10 Nios Turbo vs VW Polo 1.0 TSI vs Grand i10 Nios 1.2: Performance (as tested)Grand i10 Nios TurboPolo 1.0 TSIGrand i10 Nios 1.2P0-10kph0.52s0.43s0.52s0-20kph1.08s1.06s1.14s0-30kph1.62s1.64s2.16s0-40kph2.39s2.28s3.02s0-50kph3.29s3.27s4.11s0-60kph4.58s4.23s5.75s0-70kph5.69s5.28s7.20s0-80kph6.93s6.51s8.79s0-90kph8.23s7.99s10.78s0-100kph9.82s9.97s13.28s0-110kph12.17s11.88s15.89s0-120kph14.46s14.14s19.06s0-130kph17.12s16.87s23.31s0-140kph20.20s20.36s29.60s0-150kph23.92s24.75s-0-160kph29.30s30.36s-20-80kph (in 3rd gear)13.30s12.36s14.00s40-100kph (in 4th gear)13.85s14.73s22.44s
This motor is mated to a 5-speed manual in the Nios Turbo (as compared to the Venue’s 6-speeder). The gearbox is an absolute delight to use, with butter-smooth shifts and a light and positive action. Its clutch is light too, and so is its steering, which is effortless to twirl at city speeds. Out on the open road, however, you will be left wanting for a more consistent feel, and although the steering weighs up a bit at speeds, it doesn’t offer a very ‘connected’ feel.  And while mechanical grip is decent – with its wheels pushed to the extreme corners of the car, making it feel quite agile – road grip from the skinny tyres, however, isn’t very confidence inspiring. A set of wider tyres would improve its cornering ability to a great extent. Like the standard car, ride comfort remains excellent, and its brakes are very progressive, offering a strong initial bite.
Despite being a spruced-up version, this car retains all the Nios’ strengths, like its sophisticated, practical interiors, an absorbent low-speed ride quality, and its easy-to-drive nature, which makes the standard car very appealing in the first place. Hyundai must be lauded for taking the plunge and introducing this performance-oriented turbo version to cater to the driving enthusiasts – the added performance has made the Nios a lot more capable and more effortless, especially out on the open road. Performance is so strong that this one is the quickest hatchback on sale in India today. But those who love to drive will be left wanting for a more engaging driving experience to match the added performance, and the Rs 95,000-1,00,000 premium that this turbo version commands over a comparable 1.2-litre petrol variant seems a bit too hard to justify. Sharper driving manners and sportier looks would have made the Nios Turbo a purer hot hatch and a more compelling proposition.
Also read:
Nios Turbo fuel efficiency
Polo TSI vs Nios Turbo
Big discounts on Hyundai cars and SUVs
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-exter
Second report: Compact on the outside, spacious on the inside and feature-packed, the Exter has been the perfect city car.
The Hyundai Exter has been my daily runabout for the past two months and in typical Hyundai fashion, it has been a fuss-free ride. Its compact dimensions make it perfect for the city and the added ground clearance compared to similar-sized hatchbacks makes it a lot easier to drive on the uprooted roads of Mumbai. So its been my office commuter and also a weekend ride thanks to a spacious interior.
However, a lot of friends who I’ve driven around with find the styling unusual. Yes, it has a mini-SUV look with the cladding and the upright rear, but it’s a bit awkward to look at from certain angles.
Still, once inside, there’s no complaints; the tall-boy stance translates into a good amount of room in the cabin. Occupants measuring over six feet face no issues with headroom, and the backrest angle is decent too. It’s smooth to drive and has a light clutch with a slick 5-speed manual gearbox. The AC is very effective; sure, it’s slightly cooler in Mumbai right now and a cabin this size doesn’t take much to cool, but even at its lowest fan speed the AC is super quick to cool. The audio system too sounds good and has all the expected connectivity features.
Then there’s the ride quality and ground clearance that allows you to be a bit more relaxed over some of the poorly maintained roads. Interestingly, while most TPMS’ have given us a false reading, this one has even picked up a slow puncture. And being a direct reading system, you get a reading of the exact pressure value too. The Exter is well-equipped to say the least, with ESC, wireless charging and even a sunroof, but the painfully long traffic jams with the car idling would have been a lot more comfortable with a centre or even a driver armrest.
And speaking of painful traffic jams, it’s taken a toll on the efficiency of the Exter. With a conservative driving style I got just over 9kpl at best. I’m sure it could be more but not with the current level of traffic thanks to all the freshly dug up roads all over Mumbai. Amongst all the long termers in the Autocar fleet, the Exter gets a lot of things right. It’s packed with features, gets good room on the inside, has all the power you need to overtake in the city and has the solid Hyundai reliability. However, its highway manners are what will be tested soon along with its bootspace and highway efficiency. That is if I can manage to keep it with me.
Also see:
Hyundai Exter long term review, 2700km report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Hyundai’s new mini-SUV joins our long-term fleet and our eager testers all give it a quick go.
The Hyundai Exter has joined our long-term fleet and many from our team immediately whisked its keys away. Having missed the media drive, Hormazd took it first for a few days, following which Rahul and I had it for a week each. The first thing I did was to take my brother-in-law and his family out in the Exter and they were all very impressed with it as soon as they sat inside.
According to them, it didn’t look like much from the outside; so much for the SUV-esque styling. However, once inside, they were very surprised with the space and features on offer. Kind of like an expectation vs reality scenario. The legroom and headroom really impressed them as did the touchscreen, auto AC and the dashcam, which is also a two-way device that records both outside and inside the car.
I remember that in our media drive review, we were very impressed with the car, so I was not surprised by their reaction. However, after using it for a week around familiar territory, two negative details did emerge for me. For one, the ride over repeated bumps and potholes – Mumbai roads – is firm and jittery, and you feel all the rumbling beneath. It’s fine over a random bump and it even soaks up large ones quite well as we saw on our first drive of the Exter.
The other bit is the seats, which are firm; while filming, you are constantly getting in and out of the car, but after a long drive – a two-and-a-half-hour commute from my office to home – the seats felt hard, and you begin to move around seeking comfort.
These two details aside though, the Exter is very much as I remember it. The engine is smooth and refined and the 83hp, 114Nm, 1.2-litre petrol engine has enough pep to deal with the short burst you need when overtaking in the city. The gearbox and clutch too are very light and won’t tax you at all; especially the gear lever, which seems to slot into place with barely a nudge. So far we have filled the car only once, so we don’t know what the efficiency is like as yet, although Hyundai claims an ARAI figure of 19.2kpl for the petrol manual. When it’s time to tank up, we’ll have our first figure recorded.
We are yet to use the dashcam as it needs a micro SD card to record footage, but the specs seem good with HD recording capability on offer. The fact that it is built-in is also a plus point and Rahul, our test driver, is quite keen to see how it performs. Rahul, just remember that it records what goes on on the inside too, so no more handbrake turns for you.
I do miss the Bose music system that you get in higher Hyundais, but you do get some features like the sounds of nature, for instance, which plays soothing sounds of rainfall and beach waves through the speakers. My wife finds this neat when she’s in the passenger seat, but I find it quite odd while I’m driving.
Besides that, I like the stereo interface and UI, which is typical Hyundai – easy and straightforward to use with an intuitive menu hierarchy. There’s also a really cool retro display for the radio, which mimics a nixie tube display. The infotainment also has a SoundHound app built in, so in case you missed the RJ’s announcement, it will listen and identify the song playing over the radio once you press the icon. Pretty handy stuff. So for now, our military green Exter is doing a fine job and we’ll soon have some more data on its fuel efficiency and how it manages an out-of-town highway run. Stay tuned.
Also see:
Hyundai Exter vs Tata Punch comparison: Lightweight champs
Hyundai Exter vs Tata Punch comparison video
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Punch has carved a dominant position for itself in the micro SUV segment, but does the Exter have enough to challenge it?
Having carved a niche within the sub-4-metre compact SUV segment, the Tata Punch has made quite an impression on the sales charts. With its SUV-esque styling and clever packaging, it has become Tata Motors’ second-bestselling car (after the Nexon).
Hyundai now wants in on the action too and has launched the Exter to grab a share of the Punch’s pie. With six airbags as standard, ESP (optional) from the base variant, and stuffed with modern niceties, the Exter is well-armed to take on the Tata, and customers have already taken notice. The car hit a milestone of 50,000 bookings within a month of its launch, but it has also persuaded Tata to introduce more equipment in the Punch (like a sunroof), to defend its position. We pit the AMT variants of these two sub-compact SUVs to find out which one deserves your money.
Right off the bat, the Exter’s 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol engine impresses with its smoothness and refinement. Due to its linear power delivery and freer-revving nature, it delivers effortless performance. And complementing it is a smooth-shifting 5-speed automated manual transmission. What’s unique is that unlike conventional AMTs, Hyundai has deployed electrical actuators to perform gear shift duties rather than hydraulic actuators, and as a result, shifts are relatively seamless. Although slow, they flow smoothly into each other.
This gearbox is also nicely reactive to inputs, and it also doesn’t hesitate to hold high revs helping you extract the best out of this petrol engine. Those who enjoy driving will particularly appreciate the presence of paddle-shifters, for greater control over the transmission and a higher degree of engagement. Appreciably, even in manual mode, if you forget to upshift or downshift, the AMT will do it for you.
Being a three-cylinder unit, Tata’s 1.2-litre has a rougher idle and emits some vibrations into the cabin. Sure, these smoothen on the move, but there is no getting away from the gravely engine note and its louder thrum at higher revs. On the plus side, the Punch’s engine makes more power, and also feels more responsive and stronger lower down the rev range. Bring the 5-speed AMT into the equation, and things are vastly different. The transmission is tuned for efficiency, so upshifts are early, and downshifts are conservative too. Even the pause between gearshifts is more pronounced. Thus, overall performance is lacklustre resulting in unimpressive acceleration times.
In our instrumented acceleration tests, the Exter AMT sprints from 0-100kph in 15.59 seconds, nearly 4.5 seconds quicker than the Punch AMT. Even the Hyundai’s rolling acceleration times from 20-80kph and 40-100kph are around 2 and 3.5 seconds quicker, respectively.
In our previous reports, we’ve had only praises for the way Tata tuned the Punch’s suspension, which not only exudes an underlying toughness, but gets the balance between ride and handling spot on. Seen back to back, the Punch’s stiffer suspension shines, the Tata feels relatively more planted and sure-footed at speeds, and its handling feels sharper too. Expectedly though, a trade-off to its excellent high-speed manners is that at city speeds, ride quality is firm and it feels a bit jittery over bad roads.
On the other hand, the Exter’s softly setup suspension is tuned for comfort, so it swallows road shocks and absorbs bumps very nicely. And while it feels comfier in the city, on the highway, the Exter pitches and bobs more. Another point of difference between them is their brake pedal feel – while stopping performance is similar, the Exter’s feel more natural, whereas the Tata’s are a bit too sharp and take some getting used to.
Measuring 3.8m in length, these cars are shorter than most sub-4m compact SUVs, hence they’re categorised as sub-compact SUVs. What’s interesting is that they are quite similar in every dimension, and their wheelbase is also within millimetres of each other, as is their ground clearance, with the Exter’s being 185mm and the Punch’s being 187mm.
The Exter is based on the Grand i10 Nios, but there’s nothing that visually links ties to its hatchback counterpart, on the outside at least. Hyundai has done well to give it the much-needed ‘SUV’ flair; so its bonnet has been flattened, its stance has been elevated and it also sports chunky body cladding and roof rails. And wearing a snazzy design language with unique elements such as H-patterned DRLs, multi-dimensional panels (on the front grille, C-pillar and boot) and exaggerated haunches, the Exter has a lot going for it.
The Punch isn’t based on a previous car and is underpinned by the ALFA platform. The car is a well-proportioned, handsome one that strikes some resemblance to the Harrier when viewed head-on. In addition, its larger 16-inch alloys and relatively cleaner bodywork add to its appeal.
Another talking point is the Punch’s good performance in Global NCAP tests in 2021, where it secured 5 stars for crash safety. While the Exter hasn’t been crash tested, Hyundai claims to have strengthened the structure over the Nios, which was awarded 2 stars by Global NCAP in 2020. Hyundai is confident now that its stronger structure and safety features like six airbags and ESP will equate to a respectable crash safety score.
In contrast to its snazzy exteriors, the Exter’s cabin is familiar to the Grand i10 and is monotone in shade. Thus, it feels a bit drab. Hyundai has cleverly positioned the seats low to liberate a feeling of space inside, and its sunroof plays a huge role to brighten up this space. But the talking point is undoubtedly the quality of bits and fit-finish on the inside, and that sets a benchmark in this segment; even the knobs, buttons and stalks operate with great finesse.
Ergonomics are friendlier than the Tata’s and while its front seats are comfortable, those with larger frames might find them a bit lacking in terms of bolstering and support. Like the front, even its rear seat is lower-set, so this is a car that you sit inside, and not walk into, like the Punch (more on that later). Space at the rear is ample for two adults, and the backrest is nicely angled. Rear AC vents add to passenger comfort, but a rear armrest is missing.
The Punch’s doors open 90 degrees and its seats are higher-set than the Exter’s, which eases ingress-egress. What also makes a positive impression is the cabin’s vibrancy and airiness thanks to the white fascia on the layered dashboard, as well as a splash of body colour around its air vents. You’re sat in a more ‘SUV’ position with the bonnet in your field of vision, and even its front seats are broader and more accommodating than the Hyundai’s.
In its latest iteration, Tata has also introduced Land Rover-like armrests for the front seats, to enhance seat comfort. At the back, you are seated in a very chair-like position, with the backrest that’s relatively more upright. While space is comparable with the Hyundai, the Tata gets a centre armrest, although it lacks rear AC vents. While on paper, the Tata’s boot is much smaller than the Exter’s, and even though it isn’t as deep, usable luggage space is quite comparable.
Both the Exter and Punch boast of features like a sunroof, automatic climate control, reverse camera, cruise control and Android Auto/Apple CarPlay, among the notable ones. The Punch gets larger 16-inch wheels (versus the Exter’s 15-inch), great-sounding Harman speakers, auto headlamps, rain-sensing wipers and a clever Traction Pro feature (brake locking differential) to pull you out of some sticky situations.
On the other hand, the Exter gets six airbags across the range, ESP as well as modern niceties like a larger and slicker 8-inch touchscreen (versus Punch’s 7-inch), dash camera, digital instrument cluster, wireless charging and rear air-con vents.
Equipment checklistHyundai Exter SX(O) DTTata Punch Creative Flagship (DT)Projector headlampsYesNoAlloys15-inch16-inchTouchscreen8-inch7-inchAndroid Auto/Apple CarPlayYesYesWireless ChargingYesNoSunroofYesYesDash CameraYesNoRear AC ventsYesNoAuto headlamps/wipersNoYesESPYesNoAirbags62PriceRs 10.10 lakhRs 10.10 lakhHyundai Exter vs Tata Punch: verdict
The Tata Punch has its strengths: it looks smart, drives confidently, and, on account of its elevated seating, it is the better choice for the elderly.
However, in every other way, the Hyundai Exter is better than the Tata. Its engine is more refined, performance is stronger, gearbox is smoother, and space and practicality are marginally better. And, typical to a Hyundai, it is well-equipped and packs in many modern niceties that the Punch misses. With so much going for the Hyundai Exter, it wins this comparison quite convincingly.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-aura
Maruti Dzire-rivalling compact sedan gets a facelift, with RDE and E20 compliance.
Hyundaicontinues to bet on the Aura compact sedan, which it recently upgraded to meet upcoming emission and safety regulations. In addition, the Aura also gets some cosmetic tweaks and a lengthier feature list.Priced between Rs 6.29-8.87 lakh, it rivals theMaruti Suzuki Dzire,Honda AmazeandTata Tigor.
The earlier iteration looked identical to theGrand i10 Nios(its hatchback version) from the front. However, the facelift looks a lot more distinctive and won’t leave you second guessing thanks to its new slim front grille and inverted trapezoidal air dam design. Flanking the air dam are inverted L-shaped LED Daytime Running Lamps and functional vertical air vents, which add a touch of sportiness to its styling.
Keen observers will notice that the company has moved on from its 3D chrome logos to all-new satin-finished 2D units. Our test car sported the ‘Starry Night’ paint, which is a new addition to the palette; it appears dark blue under sunlight and black otherwise. The only other cosmetic change is the addition of a rear spoiler for a sportier appearance. Apart from other things, its oversized LED tail-lamps haven’t changed, and hence, its rear styling will continue to polarise opinions.
The front seats lack adjustable head restraints and the cushioning is on the firm side.
The Aura’s cabin impresses with its bright ambience and top-notch fit-finish and quality. Copper-coloured inserts on the dashboard fascia and around the gear console add flavour to the interior, although these aren’t likely to have a universal appeal.
Analogue dials replace the part-digital instrument cluster, which is contrary to the norm, however, they are easy to read. There’s also a monochrome MID that includes a digital speedo and a new tyre pressure monitoring system, among other information.
Its front seats aren’t the best out there because the cushioning is a touch too firm; adults with broader body frames will find them to be narrow; and taller folk will feel the absence of adjustable head restraints. It gets better at the rear with ample support and space on offer, and a comfy backrest recline angle. However, due to the car’s narrow width, this bench is best for two adults, rather than three. At 402 litres, its boot remains large and practical.
Auto headlamps are now part of the Aura's equipment list.
Hyundai has made the Aura future ready by equipping it with dual front and side airbags as standard, with curtain airbags available in the higher variants. Also, safety features like ESP, hill-start assist and automatic headlamps have been added.
Convenience features like cruise control and a tyre pressure monitoring system too are part of the package in addition to an 8-inch touchscreen with wired smartphone connectivity, wireless charging, footwell lighting, push-button start, keyless entry, reversing camera, automatic climate control and rear air-con vents, to name a few.
The Aura’s 83hp. 1.2-litre petrol has been updated to meet the upcoming RDE (real-world driving emission) norms, and Hyundai has also made it compatible with E20 fuel (petrol with 20 percent Ethanol blend). It comes mated to either a 5-speed manual or automated manual transmission (AMT), and there’s also a petrol-CNG iteration with a manual gearbox on offer. The diesel and turbo-petrol engines have been dropped from the range.
We sampled the petrol-manual iteration, and are happy to report that it feels just as smooth and refined as before. It responds well to part-throttle inputs and it’ll effortlessly keep up with the flow of traffic without having to wring the engine.
For enthusiastic drivers, while it revs to 6,600rpm, performance isn’t brisk nor does it feel exciting. And since the Aura isn’t dynamically sporty per se, it is best to adopt an easy-going driving style and enjoy it as a point A to B commuter. What also makes driving a stress-free affair are its buttery smooth and light steering, an absorbent ride quality, and a slick-shifting manual transmission paired with a light clutch.

TheHyundai Aurais neither the most affordable nor the most spacious car in its segment, but it does everything expected from it with great finesse. It is extremely user-friendly with light controls and a smooth engine, and the newly added safety features further strengthen its case. And, in typical Hyundai fashion, it is very well equipped. As a convenient commuter, the Hyundai Aura is as good a compact sedan as it gets.
Also see:
Hyundai Aura facelift video review
Hyundai refreshes almost entire SUV, car line-up ahead of RDE norms
New Hyundai Verna exterior design revealed; launch on March 21
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Almost a year and a half on, with refreshingly few kilometres clocked, the plucky little Aura leaves us to return to the Hyundai fold.
What a ride it’s been, huh? When you factor in The Year That We Wrote Off, it makes sense that it doesn’t feel like the plucky littleHyundai AuraTurbo has been in the Autocar India long-term fleet for 17 whole months! Well, I say Autocar India fleet, but for a great many of those months, its only company was my neighbour’s bicycle in the building parking lot. So much of that time was spent getting to grips with a stay-at-home routine, travelling no further than the grocery store a few blocks away, and then too, using the car simply to have a big, 402-litre boot (which, annoyingly, doesn’t have an external release button) to haul things back in.
UNBOOTABLE: No external boot release switch; only opens via in-car lever or button on key fob
Oh, then of course there was the safety that comes from being in a car altogether; the Aura was my little turbocharged bubble from which I viewed the outside world and evaluated, in my own off-the-cuff way, how well we were recovering from this pandemic. The cupholders were filled with hand sanitiser and surface disinfectant spray, the glove box with spare masks, the door pockets with wet wipes.
STORE AWAY: Plenty of well-sized stowage areas to keep all manner of personal protective equipment.
It’s in these slow, excitement-free months that I actually got to know the other side of this little sedan. No more belting it from corner to corner; no, this phase was all about perfecting clutch-bite points and mastering brake modulation. It was knowing exactly when to shift gears to keep the fuel economy reading in the happy two-digit zone without letting the turbo spool down. It was about forgiving the infotainment for constantly trying to connect to five previously paired phones before ‘settling’ for mine. There was a holiday season thrown in too, and plenty of festivities – in their new, shrunken, COVID-19-restricted form – were attended by my Aura and I.
CONNECT ME NOT: Attempts to connect to every previously paired phone, except mine.
Then the blasted virus came for me and, for one agonising fortnight of home quarantine, my interaction with the tiny turbo terrier was restricted to watching it from my window as my neighbour helpfully started it up for me every weekend; I saw an unexpected new application for connected cars and their remote start functions here.
Suffice it to say, my first day back on the road was celebrated with the same vigour I felt when the car first came into my possession. Neighbourhood kerbs became apexes, the redline my new best friend, and that 13.1kpl figure I’d worked so hard to achieve immediately dropped back down to 9. That’s just the thing about downsized turbo engines, though – they’re only as efficient as the person behind the wheel.
BOOSTER SHOT: Turbo engine transforms this otherwise mundane compact sedan into a tiny thriller.
And this circles back to a point I made in the very first long-term report of the Hyundai Aura – I’m glad Hyundai took the bold risk of offering this 100hp, 1.0 Turbo engine in this car. Yes, it probably doesn’t sell as much as the 1.2 petrol or the diesel, but just the fact that a compact sedan – the type of car born out of a sensible desire to deliver the best bang for one’s buck – comes with this tremendously fun motor is something worth celebrating. It’s not a hot hatch like the Nios, you don’t strictly need the 175Nm of torque like you do in the Venue, and yet, here it is. It’s a contradiction of ideals, one that’s helped bring turbocharging to the masses, and that’s why you’ve got to love it.
Despite being the quintessential lockdown long-termer and certainly not piling on as many kilometres as some of the others, the Aura Turbo proved to be something truly special. To say I grew attached to it is an understatement, and considering people already ask, “Hey, where’s your little red car?” in remembrance, you know it’s left a mark. There were some truly memorable moments, some of them frustrating even, but whatever replaces this flawed but fun little sedan better live up to the high standard it’s set.
Also see:
Hyundai Aura long term review, fourth report
Hyundai Aura long term review, third report
Hyundai Aura long term review, second report
Hyundai Aura long term review, first report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
After weeks of quarantine, both the car and its driver were on a mission to stretch their legs.
It’s been a few months of little to no driving for me, and that’s not just because of the lockdown imposed in the state of Maharashtra, where I live. As the second wave of COVID-19 descended on the country with a newfound fury, it managed to find me too, and though I thankfully got off relatively easy, I was quarantined at home, as per protocol, for quite some time.
Restlessness is a common side effect of quarantine, but for someone who otherwise spends so much of his time on the road, there was an added layer on top – a twitchy right foot. I could just about see where the Aura sat parked from a window in my apartment, and I’d catch myself ‘checking on it’ for no apparent reason, ever so often. I’d even lock and unlock it via the key fob, resulting in a loud ‘parp’ from the horn. My neighbours probably didn’t like it, but it gave me a strange sense of reassurance.
As you might imagine, the moment I was cleared to leave home, I took the keys and bolted. We were in a lockdown, so all I could really do was go shopping for essentials... to the furthest permissible grocery store. As if it were the last grocery store on Earth and I was in a race against time. The trip computer’s 13.1kpl readout I’d carefully worked my way up to started rolling back before my eyes like a countdown timer. The thin, 175-section tyres squealed after every gearshift and around every corner, as 172Nm of turbo torque overwhelmed their tiny contact patches. I even checked to make sure the handbrake was working properly (around a few right-angle turns).
But like someone who, after three weeks of sitting at home, immediately decides to go for a 10km run, metaphorically speaking, some lessons were quickly learnt. Like reacquainting myself with the bite of the brakes – it comes in a little late, and doesn’t feel strong enough for the power, or reminding myself that with great power comes great responsibility – for the chassis and steering, which don’t quite match up. On the other hand, the satisfying click with which each gear slots in makes rowing through the 5-speed manual an absolute joy.
Much pent-up energy was released on this and the next few drives in the Aura Turbo, and then, though driving still hasn’t returned to being an everyday practice, the little Hyundai has been pressed into some rather important duty. It shuffled my dog up and down to the vet for surgery (he really likes sprawling across the long rear seat squab), and it took my parents to get both vaccine shots.
On a side note, I recently spent two days with Nikhil’s long-term Hyundai i20, which uses the same 1.0 turbo engine (with 10hp more) and is also very red. It’s a brilliant car and in many ways feels like a significant step up from the Aura. But three things irked me – the dreary black cabin, the lack of physical controls for the infotainment, and most of all, the iMT gearbox, whose shortcomings I’m still trying to reconcile with. Oh well, nothing like another blast out in the manual-gearbox Aura for a bit of reaffirmation.
Also see:
Hyundai Aura long term review, third report
Hyundai Aura long term review, second report
Hyundai Aura long term review, first report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
As life goes back to normal, it’s the Aura Turbo’s more practical, easy-going side that gets a chance to shine.
You can tell you’re past the honeymoon period and well-worn into your relationship with your car when what once amazed you about it is now taken for granted. The novelty has worn off a bit and things have now settled into a bit of a routine. It’s been nine months and 2,700km since I first gleefully pocketed the key fob of Autocar India’s long-term Hyundai Aura Turbo, and though it spent a few months doing… not a whole lot during lockdown at Sergius’ house (Autocar India, August 2020), it’s now back with me and helping me get through a far more unlocked grind.
The thing is, if it’s a good relationship – yes, even with your car – after the initial excitement has died, you find new ways to keep things interesting. For instance, the powerful 100hp, 1.0-litre turbo-petrol engine, which is the single biggest highlight of our long-term Aura. Many a colleague has taken it out for a spirited spurt over a lunch break, returning much too late, claiming he’d ‘gotten lost’ on the way back to the office. For the first few months, I’ll admit it resurrected a bit of the boy racer in me. No gap in traffic was too small or distant for this little rocket to plug all too easily. I’d work around the lightness and disconnection of the steering, as well as the looseness of the suspension and lack of grip from the tyres, because the brief but strong hit of power from the little engine in the little car was just too addictive.
But, like I said, novelty can wear off. These days, as business has returned to normal, driving around has once again turned into a drudge, and usually involves crawling from one traffic light to the next. The focus has shifted to driving smoothly, and getting the most out of every litre of petrol, what with it costing more than Rs 90 in Mumbai. The first part takes a bit of practice, as power delivery can be a little jerky at low revs, off boost, and this is particularly noticeable with each upshift. Once you find the sweet spot in the rev band, however, the second part takes care of itself, even in bumper-to-bumper traffic, it’s possible to keep the Aura Turbo’s average fuel economy readout above the 10kpl mark, and a more prudent driver could even see 12 without an issue. It’s not quite as thrilling as just gunning it, but unlocking this smooth, frugal, yet responsive zone of a small-capacity turbo-petrol engine is a fun game on its own.
The occasional commute aside, the Aura has been pressed into a couple of unexpected airport runs, where its 402-litre boot held up admirably, and over Christmas, I even dressed it up with a ‘red nosed’ bauble on its massive grille. Unfortunately, this little festive accessory was quickly lost to a brisk blast down Mumbai’s Bandra-Worli Sea Link bridge. What can I say – it’s hard to keep the boy racer completely at bay; especially with a peppy little car like this.
Also see:
Hyundai Aura long term review, second report
Hyundai Aura long term review, first report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-i20
The sporty i20 N Line has been updated, with a mild facelift and the much-needed manual gearbox.
A few years ago, if you were in the market for a sporty but yet mass-market hatchback, you had plenty of options – the VW Polo GT TSI, Abarth Punto, Maruti Baleno RS, Ford Figo S and even the Tata Tiago JTP. All of them, however, failed to stick around, so it's heartening to see Hyundai’s i20 N Line receive an update.
There’s, of course, cosmetic changes and some feature changes, but the biggest change of them all, something which we’d hope Hyundai would have offered right from the start – a proper, 6-speed manual gearbox with three pedals. Naturally, we dived right in.
Let’s begin with the gearbox then: the new 6-speed manual transmission. Gone is the two-pedal clutchless manual – iMT or intelligent manual transmission, as Hyundai calls it – but the dual-clutch auto (DCT) has been retained.
What immediately becomes apparent from the moment you set off is that this clutch pedal is springy and the bite point is higher than you’d expect, so you’ll take some time getting used to its nature. But once you do get to grips with it, the whole experience becomes enjoyable. The manual does a good job of masking this turbo-petrol engine’s initial lag. The shifts themselves are smooth and the gates are well defined. On the whole, it definitely feels more involving to drive than the DCT or the iMT it replaces.
The engine is carried over as is – it’s a 120hp, 1.0-litre, three-cylinder turbo-petrol – but crucially, this is now offered only with the N Line and not with the regular i20, creating a further distinction for the N Line. It retains its strong mid-range punch and rev-happy nature, and it’ll pull cleanly till the 6,500rpm redline.
As for performance, the N Line manual did the 0-100kph sprint in 10.66 secs, compared to the DCT’s 11.31 secs. The reason the manual is quicker is that it enables you to launch it harder than the DCT, which feels rather conservative in its launch. At 1,071kg, the MT is also 15kg lighter, which will have a minor effect on performance too.
Hyundai i20 N Line performance6-speed manual*7-speed DCT0-60kph4.57 secs*5.37 secs0-100kph10.66 secs*11.31 secs
* Figures not as per Autocar test standards
What’s also nice is that it has a nice raspy exhaust note, but it’s barely audible inside the cabin though.
What really sets the N Line apart from the regular car is the ride and handling character. Like the pre-facelift, the N Line continues to get 30 percent stiffer damping for the suspension and a retuned steering too.
The upgraded suspension enhances the N Line’s sporty character, reduces body roll in the bends and enables it to corner flatter. And this doesn’t come with a big deterioration in ride comfort. Sure, it does feel stiffer on bad roads, but it's never unsettling and it improves high-speed stability too. The steering, meanwhile, has a good heft to it and it is feelsome. It takes away the vagueness from the normal i20 and makes it feel sharper around corners, which only enhances the engagement. Bottom line is, the i20 N Line is clearly a fun-to-drive hatch.
It also continues to get disc brakes at all corners, unlike the regular i20, which uses drums at the rear, and this gives the N Line a more surefooted feel under hard braking.
In terms of interior changes, apart from the obvious addition of a third pedal, the N Line facelift now gets Hyundai’s new 10.25-inch touchscreen with a physical knob for the volume control, but it still misses out on wireless smartphone integration. The other change is a new USB Type C port in the centre console.
The all-black theme with the contrasting red elements do a good job of conveying this hatch’s sporty intent. I particularly like the steering wheel, which has been lifted straight off the full-fat i20 N Line – it’s great to hold and to look at with its N badging and red stitching – and the gear lever which feels really high quality. Sure, there are some hard and scratchy plastics around but quality on the whole is good. The seats are comfy and spacious but more side bolstering on the front seats would have been welcome in keeping with its sporty theme. It also remains as practical as before, with plenty of cubby spaces, sizeable door pockets and a 311-litre boot. Space at the back is ample too, and can fit six-footers with ease.
As for features, the i20 N Line facelift remains the best-equipped hatchback on the market. This top-spec N8 variant we tested came with six airbags, a sunroof, a large touchscreen, a digital instrument cluster, a wireless phone charger, red ambient lighting, LED lights, a Bose audio system and connected car tech.
Like on the inside, the changes to the N Line’s exterior are very subtle and you’ll be hard-pressed to tell it apart from the older car. The easiest way to identify the facelift is the alloys – it now gets a much sportier design and polished edges. Other changes include full LED headlamps and the front grille – which loses the chequered flag-pattern inserts – and, of course, the new 2D Hyundai logo.
New, diamond-cut 16-inch alloys fit in with the N Line's character.
There’s sportier bumpers, twin exhaust tips, a rear spoiler element with side flaps, red detailing on the front bumper and side skirts, red brake calipers and N Line badging on the boot, front fender and front grille. Overall, the N Line has the looks you’d expect from a sporty hatch and enough to set it apart from the rest of the i20 range.
The Hyundai i20 N Line facelift is priced from Rs 9.99 lakh to Rs 12.47 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi). In comparison, the N Line’s only closest rival is, perhaps, the Tata Altroz iTurbo, which costs between Rs 9.10 lakh-10 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi), but the Altroz is not nearly as well equipped nor as engaging to drive, and doesn’t have an automatic option.
The N Line was always a nice-to-drive, sporty hatchback and replacing the iMT with a regular three-pedal manual is in keeping the character and takes the experience up a notch. It still offers the core strengths of the i20 like space, practicality and lengthy features list, which family buyers will appreciate, with the added dose of sportiness and driver involvement, which enthusiasts will appreciate. So while the i20 N Line may be your only choice of a performance-oriented and practical hatch, with this update, it's also a very good choice.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Final report: The i20 Turbo is leaving the Autocar India fleet and will be remembered most for its unconventional gearbox.
Think of that off beat movie that you really loved but couldn’t convince others to watch. TheHyundai i20iMT is a bit like that. It’s unusual on account of its intelligent manual transmission that can be thought of as a gearbox where manual meets auto. The driver shifts gears via the lever as on a traditional manual with the job of clutch operation handled cleverly by the electronics; there’s no clutch pedal akin to a full automatic.
I’ve grown to love the convenience of the transmission over my time with the car. I’m quite alright with changing gears myself, but removing clutch modulation out of the equation has made my rush hour commutes vastly better.
Thing is, not everyone at office sees the iMT in the same light. The ardent petrolheads simply haven’t bought into the idea of a manual without a clutch pedal. The convenience seekers, on the other hand, are happy without the clutch, but would much rather have a full automatic. To be honest, I too questioned my liking for the iMT when I sampled an i20 CVT. Unexpectedly, it was members of the bike testing team who came back full of praise every time they borrowed the car. I guess they viewed the iMT as a superbike-like quickshifter for cars. Hyundai, maybe bikers looking to add a car to their garage are a lucrative market for the iMT.
I did note greater awareness of the transmission over the i20 iMT’s time with us. In the initial days, I had to quickly run through the dos and don’ts of iMT driving with valets at malls and hotels before handing over the key. Nowadays, most valets and hired drivers have experienced one and know the drill. Not that it’s anything complex. Allyou need to be careful of is to be in the right gear for the speed. Drive in too high a gear and buzzers will remind you to downshift. Impressively, the electronics ensure the car doesn’t stall even if there’s a massive gear and speed mismatch. It’s fool proof in that sense. The short learning curve also makes it easy to switch from a traditional manual gearbox car.
After 20,000km on the odometer, gearshifts remain smooth as ever, but I have noticed a need to be gentler on the throttle when starting out. Hurried starts to make a short traffic light, for instance, result in a gasp-like break in power. Shifting up early to second gear is an easy workaround.
Otherwise, all’s well and I do still revel at the 1.0-litre turbo engine’s mid-range when an empty road presents itself. The suspension degradation I had written about in a previous report seems to have stalled, though the car doesn’t feel quite as tight as it did on day one. There’s also a squeak from near the parcel shelf. No issues on the electronics front. The tyre pressure monitor seems to have self healed, the Bose sound system is still punching hard, the reverse camera is crisp and the touchscreen is slick as ever too. On a related note, I must confess I haven’t used any of the i20’s eSIM-based connected car features. A breakdown would have been the ultimate test to see how well connected the car really is (buttons on the mirror connect you to service support), but thankfully, that’s something that didn’t happen. The only time I think I got close was when I had to negotiate a flooded patch. A gentle throttle in second gear did the job; first gear with its slight pauses could have had a different end.
Of the other things, I found the all-black interior tough to keep clean. The textured dash top is a dust magnet. A weekly interior wipe just doesn’t cut it.
Fuel economy has been decent for the driving conditions. The i20 iMT has averaged about 10.5kpl in Mumbai traffic. I got a best figure of 17kpl on a leisurely drive to Pune with 8kpl being the lowest indicated figure.
Also see:
Hyundai i20 Turbo iMT long term review, 7,000km report
Hyundai i20 iMT long term review, 8,600km report
Hyundai i20 iMT long term review, 17,500km report
Hyundai i20 Turbo iMT long term review, 20,000km report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Scouting for a new premium hatchback? We bring together all the options in the market right now.
It’s been a while since we had a good old-fashioned group comparison of premium hatchbacks, right? Thing is, there hasn’t been much activity in the segment for quite some time. 2022, however, has put the spotlight back on what is the hottest non-SUV segment, what with the arrival of the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno and its twin from partner Toyota, the new Glanza. Over the past few months, the Tata Altroz has also got the much-awaited option of an automatic gearbox, and even the Hyundai i20 line-up has seen a mild reshuffle. Missing here is the Volkswagen Polo that’s just bowed out after 12 years and we’ve passed up on the competent Honda Jazz too, which is in its run-out phase.
The four contenders will be judged on our usual long list of parameters, but convenience, comfort, feel good factor and value will get due importance.
Given that this is the first time we’re seeing the quartet in one frame, we’ll start with the matter of design and styling. Built to conform to the ‘small car’ specifications for excise benefits, each of these hatchbacks measures just under 4m in length. And there isn’t all that much difference between them in height and width either. However, there are very different approaches to styling visible here.
The new Baleno is arguably the most conservative in appearance. There’s a clear visual link to the last-gen Baleno and many might not even register it as a new model at first glance. But a closer look will tell you much has changed. All body panels are new and, in general, there’s a chunkier, more solid appearance to the car. The wide, chrome-lined grille, three-dot LED Daytime Running Lights and LED signature at the tail-lights give the Baleno enough flash too.
What’s nice is that the new Glanza isn’t merely a Baleno with a Toyota badge slapped on to it, as was the case the last time around. Yes, the basic design is same, but the Toyota sports a redone front end, which helps give it more of an identity of its own. The Glanza’s slimmer grille and sportier front bumper (replete with faux carbon-fibre detailing!) give it a more youthful look, and many at the office actually preferred the Glanza’s styling to the Baleno’s.
You’ll get stronger reactions to the i20’s look. It’s the most radical in its styling, with its large grille and drooping nose, multiple cuts and creases on the sheet metal, and Z-shaped LED signatures at the tail-lights. The i20 looks the most distinct and many will like/dislike it for just that. The Tata Altroz? To my eyes, it’s a classically handsome car with just the right proportions. The large swept-back headlights and edgy tail make it easy to identify, and it really can carry off that tipped forward stance with elan.
Technical DetailsToyota Glanza 1.2P V AMTMaruti Suzuki Baleno 1.2P Alpha AMTHyundai i20 1.2P iVT Asta (O)Tata Altroz 1.2P XZ+ DCAL/W/H3990/1745/1500mm3990/1745/1500mm3995/1775/1505mm3990/1755/1523mmWheelbase2520mm2520mm2580mm2501mmTyres195/55 R16195/55 R16195/55 R16185/60 R16Kerb weight960kg960kg1022Kg1088kgEngine4 cyls, 1197cc, petrol4 cyls, 1197cc, petrol4 cyls, 1197cc, petrol3 cyls, 1197cc, petrolPower90hp at 6000rpm90hp at 6000rpm88hp at 6000rpm86hp at 6000rpmTorque113Nm at 4400rpm113Nm at 4400rpm114.7Nm at 4200rpm113Nm at 3300rpmGearbox5-speed AMT5-speed AMT6 step CVT6-speed dual-clutch autoFuel economy (ARAI)22.94kpl22.94kpl19.6kpl18.18kplFuel tank capacity37 litres37 litres37 litres37 litresBoot space318 litres318 litres311 litres345 litresGlanza vs Baleno vs i20 vs Altroz: interior
It’s inside that the new Baleno really looks and feels like a new Baleno. The experience starts with a deeper sound on door shut. The layered dashboard is stylish and Maruti has even been adventurous with a navy blue finish for the lower plastics; though the colour only comes through on bright days.
The large free-standing 9.0-inch touchscreen is in keeping with the times, and though the dials are analogue, the colour MID screen is well executed. Quality has also taken a jump up, with a more premium feel to touch points like the steering, front centre armrest and climate control buttons.
The sculpted front seats add to the look and are supportive too, though not everyone will take to the overly soft cushioning.
The Glanza’s interior is identical to the Baleno in every way, save for the colour theme. And interestingly enough, it’s that beige on black theme that might make some prefer the Glanza over the Baleno. The Glanza interior’s lighter colours not only appear a bit more premium, but also enhance the sense of space inside.
In absolute terms, however, it’s the i20 that has the roomiest cabin. It’s the widest of the hatchbacks and the low-set dash not only helps the airy feeling inside but also allows the best view out.
Other highlights include the large 10.25-inch touchscreen that sits in clear sight without being obtrusive, and the digital instrument cluster (we aren’t fans of the counterclockwise tacho) also adds some vibrancy to the all-black interior. Sadly, quality is not the best we’ve seen from Hyundai, with quite a few scratchy plastics inside. Also, the i20’s front seats aren’t the largest or most supportive.
Thanks to doors that open 90 degrees, getting into an Altroz is that little bit easier than the other cars here. And that thud on door shut makes for a reassuring welcome note too; the Tata feels the toughest in its build. Plastic quality is of a generally good standard (panel fit could be better at places), there’s a slick use of different textures and colours, and the leatherette upholstery, unique to the Tata, only further ups the ambience inside.
What stands out, or perhaps not enough, is the free-standing 7.0-inch touchscreen that’s the smallest here. The part-digital instruments with squared-out dials aren’t easiest to refer to either. Front seat comfort is good but drivers will miss telescopic steering adjust, a feature offered on the others. The thick A-pillars also hamper visibility at crossroads.
We’ve considered these cars in their highest trim levels and each gets you a whole lot of goodies. Keyless entry, push-button start, auto headlights, front centre armrests, cruise control, touchscreens with Android Auto/Apple CarPlay, connected tech and auto climate control are some of the features you’d find on all.
The fully loaded Hyundai i20 Asta(O) is the priciest car here but it does hold allure, being the only one to offer a sunroof. Of the other things, the i20’s slick 10.25-inch touchscreen is the largest, it’s got the crispest rear camera and is the only one to get a wireless phone charger. The i20’s Bose sound system also adds most depth to your music.
The top-spec Baleno Alpha and Glanza V are identical in what they offer. Head-up display that projects info like speed, RPM, blower settings and AC temperature onto a fold-out screen in your line of sight is a cool inclusion.
It’s not a feature you’d necessarily want, but one that is easy to get used to. Also included is a handy (and segment-first) 360-degree camera, though the resolution is just alright. The Baleno and Glanza’s 9.0-inch touchscreens are nice to use, and auto-dimming inside mirrors are also a premium inclusion. The duo do well enough for themselves with an Arkamys sound module that offers good adjustability.
The Tata Altroz XZ+ is on the back foot when talking wow features. Its touchscreen is the smallest, the interface is laggy and the reverse camera is relatively low-res too. The Tata’s four-speaker, four-tweeter audio system does deliver punchy sound though.
Where the Altroz has bragging rights is in the area of safety courtesy of a Global NCAP 5-star rating for adult occupant protection. The i20 was rated three stars while the Baleno and Glanza are yet to be put to the test. Interestingly, where the fully loaded i20, Baleno and Glanza get six airbags, the Altroz makes do with just two. Things will equalise later this year when the six airbag norm comes into effect. Over and above regulatory requirements of ABS and rear parking sensors, all cars get ESC and ISOFIX child-seat mounts.
EquipmentToyota Glanza 1.2P V AMTMaruti Suzuki Baleno 1.2P Alpha AMTHyundai i20 1.2P iVT Asta (O)Tata Altroz 1.2P XZ+ DCAAirbags6662ESCAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableTyre pressure monitorNANAAvailableAvailableISOFIX child seat mountsAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableHeadlightsLED projectorLED projectorLED projectorHalogen projectorAuto headlights/wipersAvailable/NAAvailable/NAAvailable/AvailableAvailable/AvailableLeatherette upholsteryNANANAAvailableHead up displayAvailableAvailableNANATouchscreen9.0-inch9.0-inch10.25-inch10.25-inchCamera360-degree360-degreeRearRearWireless chargerNANAAvailableNAAuto-dimming rear view mirrorAvailableAvailableNANACruise controlAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableSunroofNANAAvailableNAAuto climate controlAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableRear AC ventsAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableRear armrestNANAAvailableAvailableIdle stop/startAvailableAvailableNANAGlanza vs Baleno vs i20 vs Altroz:interior space and storage
These cars are large as hatchbacks go, and each offers ample kneeroom at the back. Rear AC vents, adjustable headrests for the outboard seats and some form of charging also make it easy to get comfy at the back of these cars. But there are differences.
It’s the i20 that’s the roomiest, with the most knee-, head- and shoulder-room. Three abreast seating is easily the comfiest in the i20 and the large windows also lend an airy feeling inside.
Tall passengers will find the Baleno and Glanza just about adequate on rear headroom. A rear centre armrest (offered in the i20 and Altroz) is missed too and again, the overly soft seat cushioning isn’t ideal on long journeys.
The Altroz has its hits and misses in a well-cushioned seat but a backrest that’s a touch too upright. Headroom is also adequate but no more. You’ll be content with how much luggage you can fit in to these cars’ boots. Volume-wise, the Altroz tops the charts with 345 litres to the Baleno and Glanza’s 318 litres and i20’s 311 litres.
All models offer the option to fold down the rear seat backrests to make more space, though only the Baleno and Glanza offer the flexibility of 60:40 split seats.
Do note, loading heavy suitcases into the Baleno and Glanza takes most effort due to their high loading lips and low boot floors.
In consideration, here are the automatic gearbox versions of the four contenders. To give an overview of the engines and gearboxes, the Baleno and Glanza feature a 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol mated to a 5-speed automated manual transmission or AMT; the Tata Altroz pairs a 1.2-litre, three-cylinder petrol to a 6-speed dual-clutch transmission, while the i20 featured here comprises a 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol and CVT (continuously variable transmission) combo. Notably, the i20 is also available with a more powerful 1.0-litre, three-cylinder, turbo-petrol engine and 7-speed dual-clutch gearbox, but that version’s a whole lot pricier too.
Anyone familiar with the last-gen Baleno auto and/or Glanza auto and their smooth CVTs will be in for some disappointment in the latest models. And that’s largely down to the shift to an AMT arrangement. Sure, gentle inputs are catered to admirably with smooth enough gearshifts but press a bit harder on the accelerator pedal and you’ll often find the system doesn’t quite get what you want of it. The gearbox tends to fumble and the pause between shifts and resulting ‘head nod’ takes away from the experience. In fact, we found ourselves taking over gearshifts via manual mode more often than we’d have liked. AMTs might have come a long way but this test alone has established there’s still a huge gap to the more sophisticated transmissions out there. In terms of engine performance too, some of the zing of the last-gen models is missing. That said, Suzuki’s new 90hp and 113Nm K12N engine allows easy progress and scores well on refinement as well.
While the gearbox is a sore point in the Baleno and Glanza, it’s the engine that’s the weak link in the Altroz package. Performance is reasonable for the urban grind but unimpressive in faster scenarios, reflected in its relatively slow kickdown acceleration times.
The build of power is flat and you really have to work the 86hp and 113Nm engine to get the most out of it. Trouble is, the engine gets noisy when you do so and the three-cylinder thrum fills up the cabin. For its part, the dual-clutch transmission is smooth and responsive to accelerator inputs, even if it’s not as quick on the draw (in manual mode too) as a Volkswagen DSG unit. We also found the Altroz to be easiest in crawling traffic with a well-calibrated creep mode.
The surprise of the test was the i20 CVT. Where the last-gen i20 CVT was dull to drive, the new i20 CVT feels like an accomplished city car. The 88hp and 114Nm engine is smooth and quiet, and performance is pleasant. It’s not a quick car per se, but you’ll appreciate the ready access to power. The CVT (IVT in Hyundai speak) is well in tune with power requirements and that ‘rubberband’ effect (revs rising faster than road speed) CVTs are notorious for is largely restricted to pedal-to-the-metal driving only. It’s reasonable fun to work through the six steps of the gearbox in manual mode too. The i20 CVT is not only better to drive than its rivals here but, as a city car, also feels nicer than the pricier i20 Turbo-DCT.
Performance is one thing. How do these cars deliver on the all-important matter of fuel economy? It’s the Baleno AMT and Glanza AMT that score big in this area, with an official ARAI-rated economy of 22.94kpl. Real-world city economy is in the 12-14kpl band, and can be maximised with switchable auto stop/start that’s part of the package on the duo. The i20 IVT (19.6kpl ARAI) and Altroz DCA (18.18kpl ARAI) aren’t quite as efficient, delivering real-world city economy in the 9-12kpl band.
PerformanceToyota Glanza 1.2P V AMTMaruti Suzuki Baleno 1.2P Alpha AMTHyundai i20 1.2P iVT Asta(O)Tata Altroz 1.2P XZ+ DCAPERFORMANCEAcceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)0-20kph1.81s1.81s1.76s1.80s0-40kph3.53s3.53s4.00s4.02s0-60kph6.91s6.91s6.66s6.86s0-80kph9.72s9.72s10.25s10.62s0-100kph14.92s14.92s15.23s17.08s0-120kph21.24s21.24s23.07s25.43sACCELERATION IN GEAR20-80 (kickdown)8.55s8.55s8.15s9.11s40-100 (kickdown)11.93s11.93s11.11s13.25sGlanza vs Baleno vs i20 vs Altroz: ride and handling
As a baseline, each of these cars offer good driving comfort, with easy to twirl steerings and nice ride quality.
The Baleno and Glanza feel the cushiest at low speeds and smoothen out bad roads better than the others do. There’s an improvement in steering feel too, (versus the last gen cars) with a stronger return to centre action. High speed manners are decent as well, though frequent highway goers will find the most suitable match in the Tata Altroz.
The Tata feels the most surefooted at high speeds, handling is keen and the slick steering is the nicest too. That tough build also subconsciously adds to confidence levels. In slower settings, the relatively firm set Altroz can’t filter out the bumps (or road noise) as well as the others, but when the road deteriorates entirely, it’s the Tata that, once again, shines with a rugged side that the others don’t have.
The i20 is closer to the Baleno and Glanza in its city-biased manners, with a suspension that rounds off the bumps well. The i20 makes for an able highway car as well, exhibiting good stability and tidy, if unexciting, handling.
Before we give our pick, it’s prudent to talk prices. The Baleno AMT (available in three trims) has the lowest starting price of Rs 7.83 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi), while the range-topping Alpha trim featured here comes in at Rs 9.71 lakh. The Toyota Glanza AMT is marginally pricier (Rs 7.93 lakh- 9.90 lakh) but also packs in a longer 3 year/1,00,000km warranty, versus the Baleno’s 2 year/40,000km standard warranty.
Tata Altroz DCA (available in three trims) prices start at Rs 8.29 lakh and top off at Rs 9.79 lakh, with all-black Dark versions commanding an additional Rs 20,000. You’ll find three options for clutch pedal-free comfort in the i20 line-up, with intelligent manual transmission (iMT), CVT (aka IVT) and dual-clutch transmissions (DCT) on offer. The i20 IVT in focus here is offered in two variants, with the Sportz trim priced at Rs 8.95 lakh and the fully-loaded Asta(O), the most expensive car, at Rs 10.56 lakh. So, which one should it be?
The dual-clutch transmission has added ease of use to the Altroz’s well-established list of strengths that include a tough build, confident manners, practicality and, of course, that striking design. If you are shopping within the Altroz range alone, it’s the DCA that we’d recommend. However, as a premium hatchback, the Altroz still falls short on account of its insipid petrol engine and the lack of wow features.
Price and VerdictToyota GlanzaMaruti Suzuki BalenoHyundai i20Tata AltrozVariant1.2P V AMT1.2P Alpha AMT1.2P iVT Asta (O)1.2P XZ+ DCAPrice (ex-showroom, Delhi)Rs 9.90 lakhRs 9.71 lakhRs 10.56 lakhRs 9.79 lakhVerdictIt’s a Baleno in every which way. Toyota badge could be a lure for many buyers.Efficient, well equipped and upmarket but feels best when paired with a manual gearbox.The best of the auto hatchbacks. More sensible pick than i20 Turbo-DCT too.Tough Tata has its strengths. Lags in performance and features though.Rating8/108/108/107/10
Maruti’s Baleno and Toyota’s Glanza have wider appeal. Their long list of features will resonate with new-age buyers and the duo also address the age-old concern of ‘kitna deti hai?’ with class-best fuel economy numbers. They also build on the practicality of their predecessors with enhanced quality all around. The spoiler here is the AMT gearbox that’s just not fitting in a car of this class or price point. In fact, you might just prefer the manual versions to these AMTs. As for the question of Baleno or Glanza? Both cars are fundamentally the same, and your decision should hinge on styling preference or even proximity to a dealer/service centre.
As for the i20 IVT, top-spec versions are expensive by class standards, but for many features like a sunroof and Bose sound system make it worth the stretch. What also makes your money feel well spent is that the i20’s got the best engine-gearbox combo and offers the most polished drive.
That the i20 is also the roomiest car only helps its case. The i20 is premium in price but also most premium in experience, and that’s why it’s our pick.
Also read:
Jeep Meridian vs Toyota Fortuner comparison
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Fourth report: iMT proponent Nikhil finds himself sold on another i20 that takes a different approach to two-pedal ease.
Pictured here is me torn between twoHyundai i20s. The one on the left is an i20 Turbo iMT that’s been ‘my’ car for the better part of a year. The one on the right is the i20 CVT (iVT in Hyundai speak). If you’ve read my past reports on the i20 iMT, you’d know I’m a fan of the car and its gearbox. For the uninitiated, an iMT or intelligent manual transmission, features a two-pedal arrangement like a full automatic and does the job of clutch modulation for you. All the driver has to do is change gears as in a conventional manual gearbox-equipped car. It’s a clever set-up that’s easy to get used to and one that works surprisingly well to reduce stress in city driving. I’ve batted for iMTs since my time with one and believe the tech has great potential as a halfway house between a manual and a full automatic. It’s just that my case for the i20 with the iMT weakened dramatically when the i20 CVT rolled into office.
Over the two days it was with us, the i20 CVT surprised me and all who drove it by just how good it is as a city car. Yes, the i20 CVT makes do with a less powerful 1.2 naturally aspirated, four-cylinder petrol engine that puts out 88hp and 115Nm (to the three-cylinder 1.0 Turbo’s 120hp/172Nm), but in the cut and thrust of city traffic, I really didn’t feel any performance deficit. There’s easy access to power and none of the low-speed hesitation that I’d become accustomed to in the Turbo either. The CVT itself is smooth and offers a very polished experience. And, importantly, asks even less from the driver than an iMT. The CVTs are pricier than comparable iMTs by about Rs 20,000, but are well worth the premium. In fact, I’d go as far as saying the CVT is the pick of the i20 range, Turbo DCT versions included.
As for life with the i20 iMT, it’s been an uneventful few months. Messy road construction work on my route to office has slowed moving speeds and increased idling time, and this has resulted in a drop in efficiency. The real-time numbers displayed on the MID hover in the 8.8-9.5kpl band and that’s a bit worrying with petrol prices rising the way they are. On the flipside, more time spent in the car has meant greater appreciation for the i20’s Bose sound system that adds life (and some bass) to my commutes. And the slick 10.25-inch touchscreen remains my benchmark to judge other systems by. A word on the i20 air-conditioner too – it’s quick to cool the cabin and has put up a valiant fight through March’s heat wave.
The inconsistent tyre pressure reading issue I’d written about in previous reports seems to have resolved on its own, though the softened suspension will need to be checked during the 20,000km periodic service due soon. I’m still to take that long trip out of town in the i20 iMT, which is when I’ll perhaps have greater use for its added power. Till then, it’s the i20 CVT I’d be thinking of.
Also see:
Hyundai i20 Turbo iMT long term review, 7,000km report
Hyundai i20 iMT long term review, 8,600km report
Hyundai i20 iMT long term review, 17,500km report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-venue
Hot on the heels of its recent facelift, the Venue compact SUV gets the sporty N Line treatment.
Following the footsteps of the i20 N Line, Hyundai has introduced the ‘N Line’ treatment on its compact SUV, the Venue. With the facelift launched not too long ago, the Venue received significant changes to the exterior and interior. However, with the N Line, Hyundai aims to up the compact SUV’s fun-to-drive quotient. Have they succeeded?
Just as on the i20 N Line, there has been no change to the powertrain, but the Venue N Line is available with only the turbo-petrol engine and the DCT gearbox, which makes 120hp and 172Nm. So it’s quick, but sadly there’s no manual or even an iMT like the i20 N Line which ups driver engagement. Making amends though are paddle shifters for the 7-speed DCT gearbox, and you would want to make full use of them since the gearbox isn't the most responsive when left on its own.
The shifts, while smooth, are delayed, and you often find yourself waiting for the right gear, especially during downshifts. So the paddle shifters are a saving grace and keep you engaged as well, which is the whole point of an N Line.
Engine refinement levels are good, the power delivery is linear, and just like the standard version, the N Line too gets drive modes that change the overall response of the powertrain, with ‘Sport’ being the most eager of the lot.
As we’ve seen with the i20, keeping with the N Line theme, the exhaust does have a raspy tone, but as you gain speed, you would be left wanting more. It won’t be surprising to see some owners flocking to aftermarket shops and websites to amplify the burble from the twin chrome pipes.
So while the engine remains unchanged, the suspension has been tweaked for more stiffness and better cornering. To quote numbers, it gets 34 percent more damping force, which makes it better around a set of twisties, but that does take a toll on the ride quality at low speeds. The sharp and hard-edged bumps at city speeds are felt inside the cabin, but stability at triple digit speeds has improved.
On long winding corners, the car does feel planted and body roll has reduced as well. Not that it is prominent on the standard car, but on a spirited drive, the N Line will feel more surefooted.The steering, however, isn’t very engaging and even though the weight can be altered through the drive modes, it still doesn't feel consistent or feelsome. In Sport, there is some heft, but no feedback. What does help are the brakes, since the Venue N Line gets discs at the rear. The braking as a result is noticeably better than the standard Venue and the bite is strong, and the pedal feel is natural too.
On the outside, it gets the typical treatment of red and black with plenty of N Line badges. White might not be the ideal choice if you want to show its ‘N’ credentials, so the Thunder Blue is a better bet here. However, the red highlights are rather easy to notice on the white car. The front bumper gets a chunky strip at the bottom with ‘N Line’ badges on the grille.
Over to the side, it gets red inserts over the fenders, roof rails and under the doors, and while the wheel size hasn't changed, the design is different. At the rear, there is more red on the bumper, but what steals the show here are the twin chrome exhaust tips. It is not a major difference overall, and we would have liked some more differentiating bits. Still, if you want a bit more pop, the N Line does offer that.
Inside, as you’d expect, space remains the same, which isn't great at the rear, but offers a two-step recline for the back rest. Boot space stands at 350 litres.
Trim-wise, you get an all-black interior with a good mix of red. There is red around the knobs, on AC vents, and even the piping of the seats. There is red ambient lighting too and it gets an N-badged gear shifter as well. What is properly new on the Venue N Line is the three-spoke steering. It does feel better to hold and has the sporty appeal too. The paddle shifters have been blacked out as well, and the digital cluster is similar to the standard Venue.
The talking point though with the features is the inclusion of a dash-cam that records footage of both the inside and outside. It’s a full HD set-up at 30fps, records as soon as the car is switched on and saves it on an SD card; in addition, you can also set it to record while the car is parked. This is a very handy feature and it's nice to see it built into the car, as in a mishap, or even to prove you didn’t jump a traffic light, this footage is crucial.
Other features include metal pedals specific to the N Line, and oddly, the air purifier seems to have been removed. Still, you get the usual kit like a sunroof, wireless charging, 8-inch touchscreen with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, BlueLink connectivity and for the rear passengers, two-step recline on the top N8 variant. The cheaper N6, however, does miss out on a lot of features like the two-step reclining rear seat, electrochromic mirror with SOS switch, side and curtain airbags, dash-cam, powered drivers seat, BlueLink connectivity with Alexa and Google support, 60:40 split seats and a rear armrest.
The Venue N Line is priced between Rs 12.16 lakh-13.15 lakh. Spec-to-spec, the N6 costs Rs 1.19 lakh more than the S(O), and the N8 is Rs 58,000 more expensive than the top-end SX(O). So it does cost a fair bit more, but has the N Line upped driving pleasure? We’d say yes; while a little more power would have been nice, the N Line is more focused and engaging to drive. The suspension retune has made it more agile around corners and the addition of rear disc brakes has improved the braking and control significantly.
And, of course, there’s the raspy exhaust note, which, though a bit muted for our liking, does add some aural drama to the drive experience. And then there’s the dash-cam and the extra sporty trim. All in all, the Venue N Line is an interesting option to those looking for a more exciting drive.
Also see:
2022 Hyundai Venue N Line video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Three years after its successful India debut, the Venue gets a mid-life makeover and new features.
Having moved over three lakh units since its launch in 2019, the Hyundai Venue is a strong player in the compact SUV space, and contributes 22 percent to Hyundai’s overall sales, making it an important offering for the Korean carmaker. Interestingly, “First time buyers now constitute 36 percent of Venue's sales, so, very clearly, first time buyers are moving away from hatchbacks and towards compact SUVs,” says Tarun Garg, director of Sales, Marketing and Service, Hyundai Motor India. Thus, the Venue now gets a mid-life makeover and some new features aimed, as the company says, at ‘young first time buyers’.
One of the Hyundai Venue’s talking points is its new ‘parametric’ front grille. It’s an oversized, rectangular unit featuring a block-like pattern and is finished in dark chrome with a tinge of golden-bronze. It’s certainly flashy and would appeal to a younger set.
LEDs now replace the halogen projector headlamps, but the split headlamp and indicator set-up have been carried over from the pre-facelift version. Oddly though, fog lamps have been dropped across the range.
The bumpers at the front and rear are redesigned with faux silver skid plates, which feature horizontal black elements to help accentuate the car’s width. The most prominent design change is the rear tail-lamp, which features a new LED light bar running the width of the car that brings it in line with international Hyundai models like the Ioniq 5. Even the 16-inch alloys sport a new design.
Driver's seat gets electric fore-aft and recline adjustment; front seats miss ventilation feature.
Hyundai’s new ‘greige’ theme – a combination of beige and grey – makes the cabin feel brighter compared to the all-black interiors of the outgoing version. The driver’s seat now gets electric fore-aft and recline adjustment, and the part-leatherette seats are quite a comfy place to be. However, these miss the ventilation function which rivals like the Nexon and Sonet offer.
On the topic of comfort, an area where the Venue fell short was rear seat space. However, with the update, Hyundai has scooped out the front seats, increased the length of the rear seat squab and added a two-step recline for the backrest. So, rear seat comfort has improved over the outgoing version – although there is no change in its wheelbase – and with ample foot room, the overall sense of space has been enhanced. Owing to its narrow width, however, three adults abreast at the rear will be a bit of a squeeze.
Hyundai says that the sunroof is a huge draw for Venue buyers.
As younger buyers want more features, the new Venue has additions like LED headlamps and tail-lamps, electric adjustment for the driver’s seat, digital instrument cluster, drive modes (in the turbo-petrol DCT), air purifier embedded in the arm rest, puddle lamps, a new user-interface for the 8-inch touchscreen, new connected car features including certain embedded voice commands, ambient lighting and two-step rear seat recline.
It also features new ambient sounds – forest, by the beach, in a cafe – that play via the vehicle’s speakers, which might seem like a cool party trick, but is gimmicky to use otherwise. Other features include Android Auto, Apple CarPlay, paddle shifters (for DCT), wireless charger, tyre pressure monitor, six airbags, ESP and sunroof among others.
The entry-level 83hp, 1.2-litre petrol engine accounts for around half of Venue sales, while the 100hp, 1.5-litre diesel and 120hp, 1.0-litre turbo-petrol account for about thirty and twenty percent, respectively. In this review, we sample the diesel and turbo-petrol.
The Venue shares its diesel with the Verna, Creta and Alcazar, however, unlike its larger siblings, it uses a less-expensive wastegate turbocharger. This means it makes 100hp and 240Nm – 15hp and 10Nm lesser than its stable mates, which get a variable geometry turbo. What’s nice is that this engine is smooth and refined at idle and city speeds, and with power delivery concentrated lower down the rev range, the light clutch and buttery-smooth 6-speed gearbox make commuting a breeze. It tends to rattle under load and feels strained at higher revs, and, as the engine loses steam by 3,300rpm, it is best to keep the revs low and work around its narrow power band to make quick progress.
The three-cylinder turbo-petrol on the other hand has a healthier, broader spread of torque. Spin it beyond 2,000rpm and it pulls strongly and makes for an enjoyable drive experience. It is quite refined at idle and on the move, and sounds a bit thrummy only when you spin it faster. The 6-speed manual has been dropped from the range, so this engine is now paired to either a 6-speed iMT – intelligent manual transmission – or a 7-speed dual-clutch automatic (DCT).
While fans of the manual gearbox will loathe that there is no true manual – the iMT is essentially a manual minus the clutch pedal which made its debut in 2020 – this set-up is easy to get accustomed to and lets users row through the gears effortlessly, without them having to depress or modulate the clutch pedal. The iMT is fine for everyday use, however, during spirited driving, it’s not very quick to shift through the ratios as you have to wait for the automated system to work the clutch.
The second-gen 7-speed DCT, like the outgoing version, is smooth shifting, has closely stacked gear ratios, and is a brisk performer. Even though downshifts occasionally take a while to execute, the inclusion of paddle shifters allows drivers to take manual control over the transmission. These are a joy to use, particularly when driving in a spirited manner. The DCT now packs in drive modes, which alters the responsiveness and shift points – Eco being the most frugal, Sport being the most fun and Normal being the mid setting.
The Venue’s suspension has an underlying firmness, and while the wide 215mm tyres do a decent job of absorbing road shocks from tinier potholes, the suspension sends through most of the larger imperfections on the road, leading to a rather busy ride. Sharper bumps lead to more prominent road shocks inside the cabin, and the Hyundai doesn’t feel as plush as some of its rivals.
The Hyundai Venue is a jack of all trades. Spread across a wide price band ranging between Rs 7.53 lakh-12.57 lakh, and offered with multiple engine and transmission options, the Venue caters to a broad set of buyers. Like the outgoing version, it is still very user-friendly; the engines are smooth and refined; controls are light and ergonomics are spot on.
Hyundai has even addressed rear passenger comfort to an extent. It’s also feature-loaded, although the inclusion of ventilated front seats and a 360-degree camera would have completed the package. The Venue might not be the toughest, the most spacious or the comfiest compact SUV, but it does reasonably well in most areas, and that makes it a formidable contender in its space.
Also see:
2022 Hyundai Venue facelift video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Our cool and dependable Venue ends its stint with us on a high – down the open road, that is!
There must be a reason why highway hotel signages are almost always red. Is it because red is simply attention grabbing? Or, perhaps, because the human mind has been programmed over years to reach for the brake pedal on seeing a red light approaching? Whatever the answer may be, it wasn’t going to work tonight. We’d been on the road for a shade under 18 hours now, but the promise of a greasy meal and an ample bed wasn’t going to lure us into pulling over. There was no real agenda on hand. I just happened to be driving ourHyundai Venuelong-term test car on a rather nice road and could find no reason compelling enough to interrupt the happenings. So we drove on.
(S)trapped in the seat beside me, and conveniently asleep, was Pravin, who had filmed the Great India Drive in Kerala that we were returning from. Conveniently, because you can’t be hungry if you aren’t awake, and that meant I could keep driving without having to pull over. It certainly helped that our Hyundai Venue’s turbo-petrol engine was very quiet and that the delightfully smooth gearshifts provided no disturbance to his elaborate nap. From a comfort perspective, these are relatively small and somewhat passive aspects as compared to, say, great seats and ample leg room. On a day such as this one, however, having traversed three states and with the day’s driving distance turning into a four-digit figure, details like these make a pronounced difference. We were still a couple of hours from home, and it was a comfortable fact.
The choice of driving to Kerala hadn’t exactly been my own – I was to ride a motorcycle, instead – but as luck would have it, our Venue somehow squeezed into my itinerary. Pravin and his worldly belongings (mainly a ton of filming equipment, apart from his suspicious penchant for camouflage clothing) chose to tag along. My dejection was short lived, though, and as we effortlessly swept up the Mumbai-Pune expressway, the Venue came through as effortless and almost too good to be true, especially considering it had, at that point, clocked around 14,000km of rigorous use with us. Perhaps it was enjoying its first escape from the city; Nikhil never managed more than a 200km round-trip with it (courtesy the lockdown) and a prospective 3,000km road trip surely was something to be cheerful about.
That the Venue feels at home cruising down the highway is quite an understatement. With barely any traffic, staying at the speed limit took hardly any effort and it helped that the Venue has a sixth gear, which keeps the revs low at cruising speed. Having said that, downshifting for overtakes is not optional. This can get a bit tedious over a very long drive. Although, to be fair, the three-cylinder motor already has too much to deliver on – a 120hp output, refinement and fuel-efficiency, to name a few – so mildly inconvenient highway driveability is not a deal-breaker as such.
One did wish for a larger fuel tank, though, because the 45-litre capacity of the Venue called for a fuel stop every 450km or so. While our Venue is reasonably fuel-efficient, returning between 10-12kpl in the city and between 16-18kpl at a sustained 80kph between Mumbai and Pune, my more heavy-footed and longer stint saw it return around 13kpl, which is still very appreciable for a quick turbo-petrol.
In Kerala, where the narrow roads slowed down the pace drastically, a few other niggles became evident. Now, our Venue, having arrived with 5,000km on the odo, has held up pretty well but one can’t help notice a bit of softness that has crept into the body and suspension. Thankfully, there aren’t any rattles and squeaks except from a consistent vibration from the parcel tray, which you can somewhat distract yourself from with good music. A greater inconvenience came in the form of the roof-mounted microphone going kaput, which made phone conversations on the move quite frustrating (for those calling; I found it hilarious). However, I’d like to think it’s a small and inexpensive fix because connectivity is a big deal in the cars of today, and I hope other Venue owners haven’t faced this issue.
With 17,835km on the odo, the last 3,000km of which came from the drive to Kerala and back, it was time for the Venue to be reunited with Hyundai. It has served us exceptionally well, being easy to drive, with its light steering and great visibility, and its spirited engine and dynamics surely made it an enjoyable daily driver as well. Needless to say, road trips in its absence will be a lot nicer – for co-drivers, that is.
Also see:
Hyundai Venue long term review, first report
Hyundai Venue long term review, second report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-verna
The performance benchmarks in the midsized sedan segment have evolved and that’s thanks to the three models you see here.
While the Hyundai Verna, Skoda Slavia and Volkswagen Virtus are each available in level-headed (read lesser-powered versions), this comparison is all about their spiciest iterations. Meet the 160hp Hyundai Verna Turbo that’s sharing road space with the 150hp Skoda Slavia 1.5 TSI and the 150hp Volkswagen Virtus GT. These are sedans that will lure you to spend more over their mainstream versions for the added performance they pack in. Ardent petrolheads will sure find the added money well spent.
All three sedans come powered by 1.5-litre direct-injection, turbo-petrol engines and can be had with 6-speed manual gearboxes. For this comparison, we’ve opted for their 7-speed dual-clutch transmission versions that blend engagement with convenience. What makes the competition all the more interesting is that these are all new cars. The Slavia is the oldest of the trio and it’s just been on sale since February last year. That’s the back story. Let’s get to the competition.
There have been lots of fine driving Skodas and Volkswagens, but the list of entertaining Hyundais is a short one. Which is why there is added curiosity about the Verna Turbo. First impressions are of a friendly car, occasional low-speed fumbles from the gearbox notwithstanding. Power delivery is linear and likeable. Thing is, the genteel build of speed hides how strong the Hyundai engine is across the rev range. Sure, the engine only revs to 5,800rpm so you don’t get that top-end rush, but, on the other hand, you also don’t need to get it all worked up to get the most out of it. It’s an engine that’s easy to exploit and, as a plus, the gearbox also feels satisfyingly quick in higher speed settings, both in auto mode and via manual inputs at the paddles or gear lever.
That the Verna is deceivingly quick is reflected in its performance numbers. Its 8.82sec 0-100kph time is the best here, if by the smallest of margins, and in kickdown acceleration too, there’s little between the Verna and the VW Group twins.
As you may know, the Slavia and Virtus are one and the same under the skin, so the following driving impressions hold true for both. The Volkswagen Group’s 1.5 TSI engine is slightly down on power to the Hyundai unit, but many will actually find it to be the more exciting powerplant. And that’s down to how it bunches up its power in the mid-range to deliver a satisfying punch. It’s got the freer top end too. The engine will happily rev to 6,200rpm and sounds quite nice while doing all that it does. In fact, the sensations make the Virtus and Slavia feel quicker than the numbers would suggest. The 7-speed DSG dual-clutch gearbox plays its supporting role really well when you’re going for it, delivering quick shift after quick shift with slickness. Trouble is, the very same gearbox can feel hesitant in low speed city settings.
Unique to VW’s 1.5 TSI engine is cylinder deactivation tech. At light loads, the system switches off two cylinders for best efficiency. What’s remarkable is that the switch from four to two and back to four cylinders goes unnoticed and it’s only a notification on the instruments that will tell you what’s happening behind the scenes. In our tests, the Slavia and Virtus managed 9.3kpl in town and 15.6kpl on the highway. The Verna delivered better numbers with 10.6kpl in town and 16kpl on the highway. Perhaps the lighter throttle needed in the Verna is to credit for the better numbers.
Straight line performance is one thing. Could the Verna have closed the gap to its European rivals, or even surpassed them in handling? Drive modes that add weight at the steering (and also quicken throttle responses) with each successive mode help fine-tune the driving experience, but even at its sportiest, the Verna doesn’t suck you into the experience. There is a reasonable amount of weight at the steering, but it’s still not the last word in feel and connect. Mind you, the steering is not a deal breaker as it was on older Vernas and you can actually enjoy yourself on a winding road. But soon enough you’ll reach the limits of the suspension that comes across as a bit too soft for something meant to be sporty. Perhaps Hyundai wants to leave some breathing room for a souped-up N-Line version.
On the same roads, it’s the Virtus and Slavia that feel more involving to drive. Their steerings are light, but there’s a good amount of precision that really helps you work a connect with the cars. The duo also change direction with greater poise and allow you to hold higher speeds with more confidence. Body movements are better contained and that’s despite the SUV-like 179mm of ground clearance.
The Virtus and Slavia also feel more surefooted under hard braking, although it’s the Verna with discs at all four wheels that has the shorter stopping distance. Where the Verna has the clear edge is in refinement. It does a better job of isolating you from the world outside and the cushier low speed ride also helps to this end. Go fast over a pothole, though, and you will hear a loud thwack from the Verna’s suspension. The Virtus and Slavia are comfortable in their own right, but after a go in the Verna, you will notice more of the road below you.
It’s the Hyundai Verna that draws the most eyeballs though not always for the right reasons. Some love the rad style, others loathe it. To my eyes, the fastback-like shape works, but the flat front end with its light bar and gaping grille is out of sync with the high deck boot. The clean-cut Slavia and Virtus are more conventional in look and both carry their respective brand’s identities very strongly. But don’t you think Skoda could have been a bit more adventurous with the 1.5 TSI? It looks exactly the same as the lesser 1.0 TSI. A Slavia Monte Carlo would immediately up the wow factor. Volkswagen has made more of an effort in this regard with the 1.5 TSI that’s sold in GT form. Its blacked-out wheels, blackened roof, black mirrors and lip spoiler establish it as something special.
Inside, the Verna makes a great first impression. The low dash cowl lends the cabin an airy feel, the centre console angled towards the driver looks sporty and the twin-screen layout is new-age. But it’s not perfect. The front seats aren’t generous for larger framed occupants, and, as sporty as the Turbo’s all-black theme is, many surfaces feel hard and look shiny.
You sit noticeably higher up in a Virtus and Slavia and the reassuring thunk on door shut  makes for a welcoming sound. There’s a robustness inside too though overall quality isn’t up there with the pricier Volkswagens and Skodas. The duo share many elements including the large front seats, but the distinct dashboards help give the cousins a personality of their own. It’s the Virtus GT that puts you in a sporty frame of mind with its red theme that includes a red outline for the dashboard. The Slavia’s interior looks classy, but again, there’s nothing to tell you this is the high-powered version, which is a bummer. Do note, the Slavia pictured here has a 10-inch touchscreen, while models on sale come with a nice enough 8-inch unit. The semiconductor crisis forced Skoda to settle for a smaller size, but the bigger screen will be back soon.
Talking features, all three cars get you enough goodies. Digital dials, slick touchscreens, ventilated front seats, leatherette upholstery and single-pane sunroofs are part of the package on all three models.
The Verna does go one up on its rivals packing in added features like partial power adjust for the driver’s seat, front seat heating (very useful on cold winter days), adjustable ambient lighting and an electronic parking brake. A cool inclusion on the Verna is a switch that lets you toggle the centre console buttons to either operate the audio system or climate control system. It’s a clever function that retains physical controls for oft-used features. In comparison, the Slavia’s and Virtus’ climate control touch panel isn’t easy to use on the go. Of the other things, the Verna’s Bose sound system is good but we found the Skoda sound system to deliver the deepest sound.
In terms of safety features, these cars pack in six airbags, ABS, electronic stability control and Isofix child seat mounts. While all three comply with the latest Indian crash test norms, they go over and above prevailing regulatory requirements in different ways. The Slavia and Virtus have bragging rights with 5-star scores in Global NCAP’s adult and child occupant protection parameters. The Verna hasn’t been tested by Global NCAP as yet, but it is the only one here with radar- and camera-based advanced driver assistance systems or ADAS that can help prevent an accident altogether. I’m not fully comfortable with features like lane keep assist, but adaptive cruise control is a boon and auto emergency braking can be a life saver. The Verna’s crisper rearview camera deserves mention too.
In terms of rear seat space and comfort, it’s a close match. All three offer ample legroom to accommodate sixfooters with ease, though the said occupants will find their hair brushing the roof lining in each of the sedans. Also, while there are three-point rear seat-belts for the middle passenger (the Virtus and Slavia also get a dedicated headrest), none of the cars is wide enough to seat three in absolute comfort. The Verna does have the most comfortable backrest angle and the rear windscreen blind is also a big help on hot days.
All cars offer AC vents at the back as well as USB charging ports. You won’t be left wanting for storage spaces either with bottle holders on the doors and cup holders at the rear armrests. Large and usable gloveboxes and storage around the centre console offer enough place for smaller items up front. In terms of luggage space, the three sedans have you covered. It’s the Verna that has the largest boot on paper offering 528 litres to the Virtus and Slavia’s 521 litres, but the fact is all can accommodate large suitcases with ease. The Virtus and Slavia do go one up on the Verna with the added versatility of 60:40 split rear seats for times when you need to transport long items or just need more space for luggage.
So which of the three sedans is for you? If you are an all-out petrolhead and the driving experience gets top weightage, your choice should be down to the Skoda Slavia and Volkswagen Virtus. The punchy engines and crisp handling make them big fun and the twins also score well on other parameters like space, comfort and build quality. Between the two, it’s the Virtus GT with its added flash that we’re leaning towards more. As mentioned, a Monte Carlo with added visual drama would give the Slavia the show to match the go.
While the Volkswagen and Skoda are near-identical in price – the range-topping Virtus 1.5 GT Plus DSG is yours for Rs 18.56 lakh and the Slavia 1.5 Style priced at Rs 18.45 lakh – they are significantly pricier than the fully loaded Verna Turbo DCT SX(O) that comes in at Rs 17.37 lakh, ex-showroom. Bundled within the Hyundai’s lower price tag are more comfort and convenience features as well as the added safety net of ADAS. The Verna scores well on space and comfort too, and makes for a fun driver’s car, even if it’s not as involving as the VW twins. The Hyundai’s got the performance you’d want and the overall experience behind the wheel will satisfy most drivers. The Verna is more of an all-rounder in that sense and the one that’s easiest to recommend.
Also see:
Hyundai Verna vs Skoda Slavia vs Volkswagen Virtus video comparison
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Does the new Verna have what it takes to dethrone the formidable Honda City and rule the segment?
The Honda City and Hyundai Verna are the oldest, longest running nameplates in the midsize sedan segment, and incidentally, they are also the bestselling midsize sedans. Now in 2023, their rivalry gets fiercer as they battle for a larger slice of the sales pie in their new avatars. Honda has freshened the City’s outlook with a minor makeover and some new features, although it continues with a 1.5 petrol engine with a manual or automatic transmission, and a 1.5 hybrid powertrain.
Hyundai has introduced an all-new generation of the Verna, so expectedly, it is larger, better equipped and more modern than the car it replaces; and it is offered with a 1.5 petrol or a powerful 1.5 turbo-petrol engine, with manual and automatic transmissions. We pit the petrol-automatic iteration of the Verna against its oldest rival, the Honda City, to find out whether it has what it takes to dethrone the latter and rule the segment.
Like it or loathe it, the Verna’s radical styling is eye-catching, with its bold, ‘in-your-face’ LED lights at the front and rear. A sloping roofline with a fastback-like silhouette and sharp cuts on its body work certainly add a lot of character to its design. Having grown in size, it is now wider than the Honda City and has a longer wheelbase too.
The Honda City is longer overall and taller than the Verna, and its elegant design is likely to have a more universal appeal. Even though styling tweaks are minor, the facelift gets aggressively sculpted bumpers and a lip spoiler, lending a sportier touch.
The Verna’s interiors exude a techy vibe on account of its twin-screen set-up – one for the instrument cluster and the other for the infotainment system. The ivory coloured upholstery looks appealing and even the addition of ambient lighting as well as a nifty touch-operable climate control console – which at the touch of a button doubles-up to a shortcut menu for the infotainment system – makes the Verna feel up-to-speed with the times.
The front seats pamper you with ventilation and heating function; and the driver’s seat is part-electrically operable, making it a nice place to be in. Space at the back is huge and it even matches the City in terms of headroom and width. No longer can the Verna’s rear seat experience be described ‘cramped’ like the earlier generations; in fact, it is far from it. The seat itself is quite supportive, and feels quite comfortable to be in. The cabin is well thought out with ample storage areas and charging provisions, and impressively, its boot is a bit larger and has a wider opening as well than the Honda.
In comparison, the Honda’s cabin design appears rather mundane, particularly due to the dated 8-inch touchscreen. Unlike the Verna, there isn’t a screen for the instrument cluster, but a part-digital analogue-themed dials. This looks relatively old school, to be sure, but the execution is superb. It also gets a traditional climate control console with knobs and buttons, but these feel high quality and operate with a very satisfying ‘click’.
The cabin’s massive greenhouse area makes it feel brighter and airier, and enhances the sense of space. Then there are its seats, which are so well sculpted and cushioned that they are comfier to be in, however, seat ventilation function is sorely missed. Its rear seat remains a benchmark, and with a slightly angled floor, ample foot space for the middle passenger, and three non-adjustable (but tall) headrests, it remains the one to beat in terms of comfort. Not all is perfect though; the rear centre armrest feels flimsy, there are no USB charging ports at the rear like the Verna (instead Honda provides 12V sockets), and its boot is a bit smaller too.
Both cars are equipped with camera-based autonomous driving assistance systems (ADAS), which add a higher degree of safety while on the road with features like emergency braking, forward collision warning, lane keeping assist/lane departure warning and blind spot monitor, to name a few. The Verna identified lane markings better for the lane assist function, while the City performed erratically. What the City also packs are adaptive cruise control and leading vehicle departure alert, which are available only with the turbo version of the Verna that gets the more expensive, radar-based ADAS.
These cars are powered by 1.5-litre petrol engines mated to continuously variable transmissions (CVTs). However, the difference between the way they perform is night and day. In this contest, the Verna’s engine feels quieter and more refined. It is a smooth powertrain, which rewards an easy-going driving style, however, it is quick to step out of its comfort zone when you demand more out of it. On tap responses are unhurried, and as you prod the accelerator further, the transmission begins to show its ‘typical CVT’ character, where the vehicle speed and engine revs don’t feel in sync, making the engine sound boomy in the process. Like in the City, paddle shifters are available, which offer greater engine braking, particularly useful while going downhill. It also gets drive modes to sharpen the throttle responses as well as add weight to the steering (artificially) in Sport mode for a more spirited drive. However, going by the nature of this engine-transmission combination, it is best to dial down to Eco mode, lighten up the steering, and enjoy its laidback character.
With 121hp/145Nm, not only is the City more powerful, but with a kerb weight of 1,153kg it is also 55kg lighter than the Verna. This performance advantage is amplified on account of the Honda engine’s more eager and responsive nature. To further sharpen acceleration, the transmission also gets a Sport mode, but even in its standard setting, performance feels strong and enjoyable, and this high-revving Honda keeps pulling harder as the engine spins faster. The engine gets quite vocal as the revs climb, and it isn’t as nicely muted as the Verna.
In our tests, the City accelerates to 100kph from a standstill over 2 seconds quicker than the Verna, and the gap widens further thereon. Rolling accelerations from 20-80kph and 40-100kph also reveal similar results.
PerformanceHyundai Verna IVTHonda City CVT0-20kph1.76s1.32s0-40kph3.70s3.09s0-60kph5.79s4.93s0-80kph8.44s7.31s0-100kph12.05s10.32sRolling Acceleration20-80kph6.97s6.16s40-100kph9.48s7.86sBraking Distance80-0kph24.69m26.48m
In its latest iteration, the Hyundai Verna’s dynamics have significantly improved compared to earlier generations, and driving manners are no longer a deal breaker, even for driving enthusiasts. However, the Honda City feels nicer to drive thanks to a more direct steering, and a nicer suspension calibration. Its ride quality is also far more compliant and absorbent than the Verna’s, which is acceptable in isolation. The Verna, on the other hand, feels a bit stiffer and busier than the City.
In its current avatar, the Hyundai Verna feels thoroughly modern and is more practical than ever before. Typical to a Hyundai, it is bundled with a laundry list of features, and even though the petrol-automatic’s ex-showroom prices of Rs 14.24 lakh-16.20 lakh makes it a bit pricier than the City (Rs 13.62 lakh-15.97 lakh), the Verna gets you better bang for your buck.
The Honda City, on the other hand, feels more mundane and business-like in its approach compared to the extroverted Verna, and its equipment list isn’t as expansive either. But the City petrol-automatic is the bestseller in the range for a reason. Its engine performance is livelier, suspension is comfier and seats are plusher, so Honda has got its fundamentals spot on. And even though the new Hyundai Verna, with its well-roundedness comes very close, the Honda City still remains the better car to drive and be driven in.
Technical SpecificationsHyundai Verna SX(O) IVTHonda City ZX CVTPrice (ex-showroom Delhi)Rs 16.19 lakhRs 15.97 lakhLength4535mm4583mmWidth1765mm1748mmHeight1475mm1489mmWheelbase2670mm2600mmEngine1.5-litre NA petrol1.5-litre NA petrolGearboxCVTCVTPower115hp121hpTorque143.8Nm145NmHyundai Verna₹ 10.40 lakh * on road price (New Delhi)FIND OUT MOREImagesVideosNew Hyundai Verna image gallery12995 Views|1 year agoAutocar Awards 2024 Car of the Year: Jury Round6410 Views|4 months agoSkoda Slavia vs Hyundai Verna drag race video8140 Views|4 months ago2023 Hyundai Verna vs Honda City: Which is the better CVT...12943 Views|11 months agoHyundai Verna vs Skoda Slavia vs Volkswagen Virtus video ...23751 Views|1 year ago2023 Hyundai Verna video review17061 Views|1 year ago2020 City vs Verna vs Rapid vs Vento vs Ciaz vs Yaris com...38278 Views|3 years ago
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Having been overshadowed of late by exciting new rivals, Hyundai’s popular midsize sedan is back in a promising new avatar.
Midsize sedans have had a bit of a renaissance lately, with changes that run deeper than your average facelift or new model generation. Apart from the usual battering from SUVs big and small, there’s also the case of the higher executive sedan segment having just gone extinct. The newest wave of midsize sedans, then, has had to step up in size, spec, power, tech, premium feel and, yes, price too. In fact, Hyundai calls its all-new Verna a ‘mid large sedan’, a classification it also confers on its rivals, the City, Slavia and Virtus, based not only on their larger size, but their larger price tags too. The Ciaz is conspicuously absent from the list for that reason.
For its new-generation Verna, Hyundai has really wiped the slate clean and started over. It leads the way for future Hyundais, being built on a new platform with a radical new design. Overseas, in fact, the larger Elantra and Sonata have just been given facelifts to align with this new look. Its defining feature is a slim LED light bar across the nose, which is the brand’s new sedan signature, the headlights split off and relegated lower down in the form of non-projector LEDs and halogen indicators.
The smooth ‘fluidic’ lines of older Vernas have been chopped up into sharply intersecting angles as part of the new ‘Parametric Dynamics’ design dialect, and you can see this in the door panels and fenders, as well as in smaller motifs on the C-pillar and even the bumpers. It’s most evident in the grille that now stretches edge to edge, much like in the Tucson, and has sharp slashes instead of a conventional mesh or slatted pattern.
The rear is much bolder too, with sharp angles and edges, a lip spoiler and a full-width LED light bar culminating in vertical LED DRLs. In fact, this arrangement is meant to spell out H when viewed tail-on. But, like at the front, the indicators are not a part of this sleek array, and instead are halogen bulbs that feel tacked on in their own separate enclosure. At the sides, it still uses 16-inch wheels, as is the segment standard, but these look noticeably smaller owing to the swollen dimensions of the car – 95mm longer, 36mm wider and with a 70mm longer wheelbase.
The look is striking and will be instantly recognisable, but there’s no doubt it’s divisive, containing just so many elements that it can look over-styled in places. If you can look past these details, however, you’ll find a nicely proportioned sedan underneath. There are muscular haunches over the rear wheel arches, and the roof flows down in an almost fastback-like way, helping disguise a lot of the added bulk. And that means, more than just interior space (more on that shortly), there’s now a class-leading 528 litres of boot space.
When the last Verna was launched in 2017, it hit the market with a rear seat that was not much more spacious than its predecessor’s and notably less than what rivals like the Ciaz and Gen 4 City offered. Hyundai says this was the first thing to be addressed with the new Verna, and it shows. Space back here is now vast, and at least on par, if not more than rivals.
You also don’t sit as low down as before, another old Verna bugbear, and this not only aids ingress and egress, but gives you a much better view forward. They’ve managed this while retaining good headroom, and with no increase in the exterior height of the vehicle, it’s all down to better packaging and that fastback roof.
Up front, the design feels like a proper generational leap, with a minimalist and horizontally oriented look replacing the rather generic V shape of before. The shelf-like dashboard has full-width AC vents with brushed silver accents, and an LED ambient light bar that extends onto the doors.
The dual 10.25-inch infotainment and instruments screens are an upmarket touch similar to the Ioniq 5, and eliminate the need for a hooded binnacle. The touchscreen is angled towards the driver, as is the central console below it, although the digital dials are still more a backlit panel than a proper colour screen like in the Creta or Alcazar.
The new two-spoke steering wheel design looks futuristic, the metallic finish of the switches feels upmarket, and it’s adjustable for rake and reach. There’s a slim panel on the dash that alternates between AC and infotainment controls at the press of a button, and while that might sound gimmicky, it’s incredibly effective in practice.
It still has two physical knobs, which are easy to use with muscle memory while driving, and though some functions are on a touch panel, that’s still better than going into a sub-menu on the touchscreen. Quality, as is generally the case in Hyundais, is very good, with generous soft-touch material on the dash and great plastic quality all around. There’s no huge swathes of flat, dull plastic like in the i20 and Creta, and even the hard plastic panels in the door cards have been textured to look like leather.
On models with the 1.5 MPi engine, the interior is cream and black, which will no doubt dirty easily, especially around the window switches, but it looks airy and upmarket. 1.5 Turbo cars have a black interior with red accents, which looks nice and sporty. There are some standout details that uplift the cabin ambience too, like contrast-coloured stitching and piping on the seats, and 64-colour ambient lighting that extends onto the doors.
Front seats now offer heating functionality along with ventilation.
It wouldn’t be Hyundai without some class-best features, and while rivals have caught up, the Korean brand still has a few tricks up its sleeve. The aforementioned dual-purpose control panel is a good example, as is the free-standing dual-screen set-up, but it’s the addition of heated and ventilated front seats, as well as semi-power-adjustment (height adjust is manual) for the driver’s seat that stand out.
Other features of note are drive modes, a great-sounding 8-speaker Bose sound system, wireless phone charging, wired Apple Carplay and Android Auto, connected car tech, auto headlamps, auto engine stop/start, a sunroof, and keyless entry and go.
The safety suite is strong too, with six airbags across the range, ABS, EBD, ESC, TCS, TPMS, hill-start assist, seat-belt reminders for all seats, front and rear parking sensors, rear disc brakes and an electronic parking brake (the last two only on the turbo DCT).
The Honda City may have just beaten Hyundai to the punch for offering ADAS in this segment, but the Verna has a small advantage. In addition to the camera array, the Verna also has front and rear radar modules (albeit only on the turbo DCT) that let the system function better in low-visibility conditions, and allow for adaptive cruise control and front vehicle departure warning.
With the new Verna, diesel is officially dead in the midsize sedan segment. What you get instead are two petrol engines – the 1.5-litre MPi, naturally aspirated four-cylinder petrol engine mated to a 6-speed manual or 8-step CVT, or a 1.5-litre T-GDi, direct-injection turbo-petrol four-cylinder engine, mated to a 6-speed manual or 7-speed dual-clutch auto. We got a chance to drive all but the base MPi manual.
The 115hp naturally aspirated petrol is familiar by now, having appeared in the previous Verna and the Creta, apart from the Kia Seltos and Carens. It’s refined, with an even spread of power and performance that feels ample for the city and adequate out on the highway. The difference here is that the CVT feels better tuned than even the one in the Creta.
Yes, the Eco drive mode feels expectedly sluggish, but in Normal, responses and performance line up quite well with the revs. It almost feels rewarding to drive, more so even than Sport mode, which does add some pep at low speeds, but then also suffers a severe rubberband effect as you go faster. You might even be tempted to use the paddles to hop through the simulated ‘gears’, but really, this isn’t the engine for driving enthusiastically.
That would be the new turbo-petrol engine, which packs in a few pleasant surprises. For one, with 160hp and 253Nm, it has class-leading power and torque figures, and second, as per the ARAI cycle, it’s more fuel efficient than the 1.5 MPi, with figures of 20kpl and 20.6kpl for the manual and DCT respectively.
And it’s a proper manual, not the two-pedal iMT that Hyundai introduced in some other models, which sources tell us is an admission that enthusiasts prefer three pedals. It’s also more accessible than the old 120hp 1.0 T-GDi, being offered in two trim levels with two gearboxes, and as a result, accounts for 40 percent of Verna bookings at the time of this review.
This is a great all-rounder of a powertrain. It’s smooth and refined, for one, with none of that three-cylinder thrum of the old 1.0. Much like the Creta’s erstwhile 1.4-litre turbo, which this effectively replaces, it doesn’t have the gut-punch acceleration of some rivals, but the performance is all there. It comes through in a linear manner, and you’ll soon realise you’re more than up to speed. It’s also fun commanding all this power via a 6-speed manual, which has smooth throws and slick shifts. The only downside is a long pedal travel for the clutch and a high engagement point.
Interestingly, the manual version also gets drive modes, which are said to alter throttle response, but frankly, it’s all but imperceptible. You can feel the difference, of course, in the DCT version, which seems to be the pick of the range. It combines the performance of this engine with the convenience of an automatic, and some added features, as was highlighted earlier. The DCT gearbox is surprisingly smooth too, and doesn’t feel clunky between the gears, making it great both for inter-city use and for spirited driving. And yes, you’ll want to use the paddles here.
Steering has always been one of the barriers to spirited driving in a Hyundai Verna, and unfortunately, that hasn’t been completely resolved. It turns out the driving modes also add weight to the steering but, again, the effect is so minuscule, I had to go back out again just to double check. It’s miles better than the Vernas of old, but still far from the last word in feedback, weight or precision. What it’s great at is being light and effortless, so when you’re just mooching around town or parallel parking, you’ll really appreciate it.
What has seen a marked improvement is the suspension and ride quality. What was once an overly soft, bouncy set-up was rectified in the last generation with a lot more control, but this came with the side effect of thuds and crashes through bumps. This time, they seemed to have ironed it out and found a happy balance that’s good for the driver and the driven. It still errs more on the side of comfort, with nice soft-edged low-speed bump absorption. It doesn’t get too unsettled as you go faster and even remains composed at expressway speeds.
ADAS functions work well, giving you sufficient leeway to intervene before the car does so itself. Audible and visual warnings get your attention, and usually come well before the vehicle acts. However, unlike more expensive cars, the steering wheel isn’t as good as sensing that you’ve put your hands back on the wheel during adaptive cruise control, and you do have to tug at it gently to let the car know you’re there.
The final piece of the puzzle is the price, and Hyundai has cleverly made sure it’s comfortably within the confines set by its rivals, at least for an introductory period. The MPi version goes from Rs 10.90 lakh to Rs 16.19 lakh, while the Turbo costs Rs 14.84 lakh to Rs 17.38 lakh. Not counting the Ciaz, that’s the lowest starting point for entry-level petrols, and it’s the cheapest of the more powerful turbo-petrols too. And this is with a strong equipment list that includes the likes of ADAS. It even does well to fill the space left by the Elantra and caters well to the chauffeur driven.
It sounds like a winning formula, and Hyundai certainly thinks it will be, with a target of doubling the previous Verna’s sales and overtaking the City to become the king of the segment. The new turbo DCT is the highlight of the range, even though it’s not the 'furious' sports sedan you might be led to believe it is. What it does is mix performance with accessibility and refinement, and if you’re looking for a better deal, there’s always the MPI.
The new Verna has moved up a segment in all the areas that matter, and feels like the segment shift Hyundai claimed it would be. It may not be the last word in performance or fuel economy as some rivals are, but frankly, it excels in almost every area, with very few standout flaws. And if you’re on the side that likes the edgy new look, picking the new Verna as your next sedan seems like a no-brainer.
Also see:
2023 Hyundai Verna video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-creta
Hyundai’s third N Line model definitely looks the part but does it drive just as well?
Since the introduction of its N Line brand in India in 2021, Hyundai has gone on to sell over 22,000 units of its sportier models – the i20 N Line and Venue N Line. And now the Creta SUV is the third to get the N Line treatment. The new Creta N Line gets overhauled exteriors and interiors, a new powertrain option and is priced competitively too. So is this the sporty midsize SUV you should go for? Read on to find out.
On the outside, Hyundai has given the Creta N Line a sportier bumper up front with a different grille design; the Hyundai logo is now positioned lower down. Then there’s red detailing on the bumpers and side skirts, larger 18-inch alloys, a roof-mounted spoiler, a faux diffuser with twin exhaust tips and N Line logos all around. To my eyes at least, it does look the part and help exude that sporty vibe, and you definitely won’t confuse this for the normal Creta.
Sporty bumpers, red detailing and those cool alloys help the N Line stand out.
Hyundai is offering the Creta N Line in three monotone colours – Abyss Black Pearl, Atlas White and Titan Grey Matte (exclusive to the N Line) – and three dual-tone options which get a contrast black roof – Atlas White, Shadow Grey and Thunder Blue.
Like the exterior, the interior too features red details and N Line logos all around. The trim pieces on the dash, the stitching and piping on the seats and even the ambient lighting are all red, keeping with its theme. There’s N Line branding on the seats, rear seat cushions, gear lever and steering wheel; the latter two particularly help uplift this cabin.
N-specific details look and feel great in the Creta.
Other than that, the basic interior layout is the same, headlined by the two 10.25-inch screens on the dash. The bezel-less screens look neat and provide a good view out but taller drivers may find them placed a bit too low. The materials and textures used inside are nice but the fit-finish isn’t on par with Kia’s class-leading standards. Meanwhile, the all-black upholstery and the metal pedals suit the sporty character of the N Line.
Backrest recline, sunshades and neck pillows add to the comfort factor.
The front seats, while comfy, could do with some extra side bolstering given this is a sporty model. The rear seat is spacious and what helps comfort here is the reclinable backrest, sunshades and the soft neck pillows. However, it doesn't get a rear centre headrest, which it really ought to have. Boot space is the same as the normal Creta at 433 litres, and you get the flexibility of 60:40 split-fold for the rear seat backrest.
Powering the Creta N Line is the same 160hp, 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine as the standard Creta, Alcazar, Verna, and the Kia Seltos and Carens. However, unlike on the standard Creta, this N Line gets the option of a proper 6-speed manual. There’s also a 7-speed dual-clutch auto on offer and we experienced both powertrains on our drive.
160hp, 1.5-litre turbo-petrol is carried over unchanged from the standard Creta.
The four pot engine delivers its power in quite a linear manner and the boost doesn’t come on as aggressively as on VW Group’s 1.5 TSI. Yes, the engine doesn’t feel alert below 1,700rpm but once the turbo spools up, the healthy 253Nm of torque gives you enough on tap to keep up with traffic or perform a quick overtake. It’s not a quick revving engine but the constant supply of power makes the Creta deceptively fast. It also impresses with its refinement, but unfortunately, it doesn't get a raspy exhaust note like the i20 N Line does.
We started off our drive in the manual given it’s the newer option. The 6-speed box’s shifts require some effort to slot into gear, which is uncharacteristic for a Hyundai, and though the clutch is light, the release action is a bit springy. However, slamming in the occasional quick shift is highly satisfying. What is also nice is the manual gear lever, which looks and feels really high quality.
The manual might be the more involving drive but it’s the DCT that feels more complete. This engine feels more suited to this gearbox and as such, the powertrain feels more seamless. The gearbox is also quick to respond to your throttle and paddle shifters/gear lever inputs. What’s also nice is that unlike on the manual, the auto gets drive and traction modes for you to choose from. Apart from altering the theme of the dials, the drive modes also make a difference to the throttle – feels a bit sharper in Sport – and the steering – gains slightly more weight. Furthermore, it also gains adaptive cruise control in the ADAS suite over the MT. All things considered, it’s the DCT which we’d recommend out of the two.
As for performance, the Creta N Line DCT is said to do 0-100kph in 8.9secs, but we’ll have to wait and do our rigorous performance tests to confirm that claim. In terms of fuel efficiency, Hyundai claims the Creta N Line will do 18.2kpl with the DCT and 18kpl with the manual.
Like it was the case with the i20 N Line, Hyundai says it has made changes to the Creta’s suspension damping and steering tuning to make it feel more sporty in the N Line. The N Line does feel more involving, more confident and more fun than the standard Creta, but the changes aren’t as transformational as they were on the i20 N Line.
There is a hint of stiffness, but the ride is well-judged overall.
The ride is well-judged as it feels planted at high speeds and is composed enough when tackling bad roads. It does have a hint of stiffness, which can be attributed to the sportier suspension and larger 18-inch wheels, but it never feels uncomfortable. Braking performance, meanwhile, is more than sufficient.
Around corners, the Creta N Line feels predictable and the 215-section tyres are sufficiently grippy, but it does tend to roll quite a bit. The steering feels well connected and you do get a good idea of what the front wheels are doing. However, it could do with a bit more heft and feedback. The DCT (in Sport mode) is the Creta N Line with the more feelsome steering.
It's predictable around bends but tends to roll.
On the whole, the N Line strikes a good ride and handling balance, but it’s not the ultimate driver’s SUV we’d hoped it would be.
The equipment list of the top-spec Creta N Line N10 variant you see here mirrors that of the Creta SX(O). So you get a panoramic sunroof, dual 10.25-inch screens, dual-zone climate control, ventilated front seats, wireless charging, leatherette upholstery, an 8-way powered driver's seat, an 8-speaker Bose audio system, Hyundai’s BlueLink connected car suite, electronic parking brake, LED lighting and more. Interestingly, the lower N8 variant gets a dual dash cam, but the N10 doesn’t as the ADAS system's cameras are placed in the same position.
The Creta N Line gets level 2 ADAS features that work well.
Speaking of which, the ADAS features include forward collision warning, lane keep assist, dynamic cruise control and much more. On our short drive, we didn’t get to fully test the ADAS, but it did function as intended. Other safety features include six airbags, disc brakes all around, a 360-degree camera, a blind-spot monitor, a tyre pressure monitor, front and rear parking sensors, and ISOFIX mounts.
Prices for the Creta N Line start at Rs 16.82 lakh for the N8 manual and go up to Rs 20.30 lakh (introductory, ex-showroom, India) for the N10 DCT variant. The Creta N Line is priced more or less on par with range-topping versions of rivals like the Skoda Kushaq Monte Carlo 1.5 TSI (Rs 20.49 lakh), Volkswagen Taigun GT Plus (Rs 19.74 lakh) and the Kia Seltos X-Line (20.30 lakh).
The N Line DCT costs Rs 30,000 more than the equivalent Creta DCT.
With the output being the same, and the suspension and steering differences being subtle, it’s the cosmetic changes that really set the N Line apart from the Creta, while retaining the other core strengths like the features list, refined engine and roomy cabin. And with it costing only Rs 30,000 more than the equivalent Creta DCT variant, it definitely feels worth that premium considering how effective the aesthetic changes are in conveying its sporty demeanour. It's just a bit of a shame then that the Creta N Line doesn’t get the go to match the show, which would have made its case even more compelling.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Updated Creta addresses the original’s lesser points and builds on its strengths.
2015’s Hyundai Creta was not the first midsized SUV to go on sale (that honour goes to the Renault Duster), but it quickly became the model of choice in the segment. In the years since, the segment has exploded in sales, rivals have come and gone, but the Creta remains undeterred at the very top, with cumulative sales upwards of 9,00,000 units. Thankfully, Hyundai hasn’t gone for a ‘why fix what ain’t broke?’ approach for the 2024 model year update. Rather, the changes are comprehensive with a new look, redone interior, more features and ADAS too. Read on to know how it all comes together.
When 2020’s second-gen Creta broke cover, there was shock and awe. Styling was radical and a bit too out there for buyers with conservative tastes. This 2024 update finds a great middle ground by being both new-age and agreeable in look.
Up front, there’s a larger grille with parametric details (as Hyundai calls it) that’s complemented by an altogether new lighting arrangement. The split setup comprises LED Daytime Running Lights, sequential turn indicators and a light bar atop the grille, with the main quad LED headlamps positioned lowered down on the bumper. New scuff plates also do their bit for the look, and in all, the updated Creta’s more squared-out front works.
Where the Creta looks no different is at the sides where new alloy wheels are your only giveaway of this being the 2024 model. Hyundai’s designers have redone the tail to good effect though. The 2024 Creta sports a more angular look at the back, and gets full LED tail-lamps and a full-width LED light bar that lend it a new lighting signature. You sure won’t confuse Cretas old and new at the rear, but you also wouldn’t be alone to find some similarities to the Grand Vitara’s derriere. A new rear bumper completes the Creta’s makeover.
There are six paint options to choose from and we’d suggest you give the new Robust Emerald Pearl serious consideration. It looks really rich and stands out on bright days.
Hyundai has gone the distance to give the Creta a new dashboard with this update. The dash wraps around a 10.25-inch touchscreen that flows into the new 10.25-inch digital driver's display from the Alcazar. The arrangement is in keeping with latest trends and the bezel-less look for the screens lends the cabin an airy look. However, taller occupants might find the screens a touch low for comfort. Outside visibility is good and the front seats are also comfy enough, if not particularly generous in shoulder support.
All variants of the Creta sport dual-tone grey interiors with the seat upholstery (fabric or leatherette) being the real big differentiator between variants. The light materials look nice and the textures are pleasing, but there are no soft-touch materials on the dash, and fit-finish isn’t Hyundai’s best. For instance, the gloss finish to the redone centre console looks wavy.
The only change to speak of at the rear section of the Creta’s cabin is the inclusion of two USB Type-C charging ports. Space remains a highlight with good legroom and adequate width for three adults to sit in comfort. A sore point is the continued absence of a headrest for the middle passenger. As before, the rear backrest gets a two-step adjust, there are comfy pillows with the headrests and sun shades for the rear windows are included too.
There’s no change to luggage space. Boot volume is a competitive 433 litres, but in practice, useable luggage room is down on some rivals. The rear seat does offer the added flexibility of 60:40 split-fold for times you need to haul even more cargo.
When it comes to features, the Creta continues to wow. Comfort and convenience features include a powered driver’s seat, ventilated front seats, new dual-zone climate control, onboard air purifier, electric parking brake and a panoramic sunroof. The upgraded tech suite is just as impressive. The 10.25-inch digital display with its customisable modes is crisp and easy to refer to, the touchscreen is slick (gets 12 regional languages for its UI), the new 360-degree camera is a boon and the Bose sound system is impressive in its own right. Also part of the package is connected tech that brings with it multiple features such as a new Jio Saavn music streaming app, along with an eSIM-based setup that let you remotely keep an eye on your car.
If anything, it’s the absence of wireless connectivity for Android Auto and Apple CarPlay on versions with the 10.25-inch touchscreen that’s a miss.
The Hyundai Creta is on offer with three engine options. There’s a 115hp, 1.5-litre naturally aspirated petrol; a 116hp, 1.5-litre diesel and a new 160hp, 1.5-litre turbo-petrol that replaces the older 1.4-litre turbo-petrol.
We’ve experienced the new turbo-petrol unit on a host of Hyundai and Kia products already, and found it well suited to the Creta too. While not as punchy as the Volkswagen Group’s 1.5 TSI engine, Hyundai’s direct-injection engine is strong through the rev range and makes the Creta deceivingly quick. Good refinement and ready power also make the engine suited to the everyday grind. The 7-speed dual-clutch auto the engine comes paired with is nice too, but it does tend to trip at low speeds, occasionally fumbling through the lower gears. Over spirited driving, you’ll like how the DCT shifts gears in auto mode and how it responds to commands at the paddleshifters and gear level in manual mode.
As before, the Creta also packs in drive modes. Most drivers won’t really bother with the settings but the powertrain does feels more energetic and there’s also slightly more weight at the steering in Sport mode. There are terrain modes too but there’s only so far the front-wheel drive Creta can take you in the rough.
Of the other engines, the 115hp, 1.5-litre petrol unit feels likeable as ever with pleasant performance for urban duties. In fact, the 1.5 petrol with the CVT (iVT as Hyundai brands it) is the combo we’d recommend for most buyers. Buyers with lots of running who aren't spooked by the government’s anti-diesel sentiment will find a great match in the Creta 1.5 diesel. The engine is smooth and quiet by diesel standards; there’s enough poke for highway duties and fuel economy is a highlight with an official figure of 21.8kpl for the manual gearbox version. Were it down to us, we’d trade some economy (a still impressive 19.1kpl) for the convenience of the torque converter automatic transmission-equipped diesel.
The Creta remains an easy going and user-friendly SUV. The large glasshouse gives great all around visibility, the steering is light and the 4.3m size feels manageable even on chaotic Indian roads. Ride comfort is pleasant with just a hint of firmness at low speeds, and Hyundai has wisely not upsized to larger 18 inchers that would have had an adverse impact on bump absorption.
The Creta drives confidently at higher speeds too; it’s not quite an SUV keen drivers will lust for but there’s enough of a connect with the front wheels and handling is predictable. Braking performance is also good (front and rear discs are standard) though more feel at the pedal would be nice.
As part of the update, Hyundai has reinforced the body shell at critical points for enhanced crash protection. The 2024 Creta complies with India’s latest crash test norms and will be rated by Bharat NCAP in the coming months.
The list of standard safety features on the Creta is long: 6 airbags, ABS with EBD, electronic stability control, front and rear disc brakes, tyre pressure monitor and ISOFIX child seat mounts. Top-spec variants further see the all-important addition of advanced driver assistance systems or ADAS. The camera and radar-based suite enables Level 2 ADAS and includes functions like lane keep assist, adaptive cruise control, auto emergency braking and more. The systems worked well on our test route on the empty roads around Osian in Rajasthan, and the smart cruise control with stop and go (it brings the vehicle to a halt and automatically accelerates when the leading vehicle moves) also did its job well in Jodhpur city.
Another function that proved exceedingly handy is the blind view monitor that relays footage from the wing mirrors on the digital display when the indicator is activated.
The2024 Hyundai Creta rangestarts at Rs 11 lakh (ex-showroom) for the entry petrol-manual and goes all the way up to Rs 20 lakh for the fully loaded turbo-petrol and diesel-automatics. All engines, gearboxes and trims accounted for, there are 19 variants of the Creta on sale; so there’s a Creta for every midsize SUV budget.
As a package, theCretagets most things really right. It’s spacious, well equipped, and in its latest avatar, easier on the eye as well. The driving experience is satisfactory across the five engine-gearbox variants and there’s the promise of enhanced crash safety too. To really go into the specifics, a middle seat headrest and grander plastics at places are the only blanks that the Creta needs to fill.
In its latest avatar, the Creta has become even easier to recommend. Be set to see a whole lot of them on our roads.
Also see:
2024 Hyundai Creta facelift video review
2024 Hyundai Creta facelift walkaround video
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-alcazar
Final Report: From Mumbai to Daman and even Kashmir to Kanyakumari! The Alcazar has traversed the entire length of the country, impressing us all along the way.
When it first came to us in the middle of 2022, little did we know just how much we’d all like this diesel-manual, three-row Hyundai. At first, folks weren’t exactly rushing for the keys. A three-row SUV and a manual to boot isn’t exactly city friendly. But I grabbed the keys, given that for my home to office run – a little over 70km both ways – a diesel-manual is the most frugal combination, and the Hyundai unit is particularly so. And, indeed, it’s been a fuel sipper. Over the many months, the least efficiency we recorded was an impressive 12.8kpl, the best being 19.4kpl; we carefully measured consumption using the tankful to tankful method. Also helping in the daily driver chores are the light gear lever and clutch, which takes the sting out of traffic to some extent.
Highway runs are a breeze though; it’s not got the high speed composure of say, a Jeep Compass, but it’s stable enough when you keep sane speeds and, boy, is it comfy. Like on our Kashmir to Kanyakumari run in 2022, everyone wanted to travel in the Alcazar; the rear captain seats are comfortable and spacious, the rear centre console is genuinely handy, with even a wireless charger and USB ports, and the fold-out food trays came in handy quite often. While on the K2K run, our video editor found it a handy perch to work on his laptop transferring footage and editing clips, while on a family trip to Goa, it was used for either snacks or to keep phones to watch movies.
The third row is also well-designed; my daughter is the one who usually ends up there and she’s more than happy with the space and comfort, but what makes it really nice is that there are USB ports, cupholders, AC vents and blower controls here too. Plus, the windows are nice and large, so for kids sitting in the third row, it doesn’t feel like being punished at all.
While it’s comfy, it’s also refined. I’ve had many people travel with me in it and most are surprised to know it’s a diesel. You can hear the engine grumble if you’re standing outside or during start-up, but while cruising steadily, it’s nice and quiet. Driving is a real pleasure when you’re simply pottering about and cruising along, but it’s no driver’s car – the steering is light but devoid of real feel. And while I’m on about things I didn’t like, the tyre pressure monitoring system has at times given us false ‘low pressure’ warnings, and the sunroof control  slider needs just a half-press to open just the sunshade; quite unintuitive. The AC vent slider knob also broke, but that aside, the Alcazar has been remarkable in its time with us.
Pretty soon, everyone was reaching for its keys when they had an outstation trip or required to transport people or luggage. Speaking of which, we’ve used it to ferry some of our luggage too, like picking up a load of snack boxes for the office party or transporting tyres to be fitted and balanced.
It’s also been the tracking car for most shoots. Again, it’s spacious and the suspension does a good job of taking up ruts and bumps, providing a steady platform for our photographers and videographers to shoot from. And then, our accounts team is also happy seeing the lower fuel bills. So yes, in its time with us, the Alcazar has really endeared itself to a whole lot of people and as this one bids us goodbye, there will be a lot who will miss it.
Also see:
Hyundai Alcazar facelift to launch by mid-2024
Hyundai Alcazar long term review, first report
Hyundai Alcazar long term review, second report
Hyundai Alcazar long term review, 30,000km report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Hyundai’s three-row SUV gains a new powertrain and some mild cosmetic and feature updates.
Hyundai’s three-row SUV, the Alcazar, was recently updated for 2023, bringing in a new petrol engine, a new gearbox, some minor styling changes and feature additions. We’ve now had the chance to get behind the wheel to tell you what all is new and what the updated Alcazar feels like.
The petrol Alcazar is now powered by a 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine, which makes 160hp and 253Nm of torque and, in this particular instance, is mated to a 7-speed dual-clutch automatic gearbox, which transmits power to the front wheels. This is the same unit that does duty on the new Verna Turbo and the Kia Carens, and it can also be had with a 6-speed manual gearbox in the Alcazar in the lower variants. Interestingly, Hyundai has stuck to a conventional 3-pedal manual with this engine, while Kia has ditched the manual for the iMT. Both brands say their choice is based on customer preference.
The 1.5 Turbo is heavily localised and hence cheaper than the imported 2.0 MPi it replaces; it is also lighter yet more powerful (by 1hp) and torquey (by 61Nm). The new 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine is RDE compliant and it’s also E20 (20 percent ethanol blend) fuel ready. From the moment you thumb the starter button, it becomes apparent that this is a refined unit. And it remains so, throughout the rev range. Performance is also strong and it builds speed in a linear manner.
However, compared to the older 2.0, the 1.5 turbo is slower in the 0-100kph run in our performance tests, but it is quicker in terms of in-gear acceleration. This is because the 2.0 MPi had strong bottom-end performance, which helped it get off the line quite aggressively. Also the 1.5 turbo has some off-boost lag, hence the difference in 0-100 times. However, the strong mid-range of the turbo is what helps it to be quicker in gear.
Performance1.5 T-GDi DCT (Sport mode)2.0 MPi AT0-100kph10.21sec9.80sec20-80kph (kickdown)5.59sec6.45sec40-100kph (kickdown)7.32sec8.21sec
There are three drive modes on offer too – Eco, Comfort and Sport. In Eco and Comfort, the Alcazar feels relaxed as the throttle response is very gradual and it won’t downshift at the first given opportunity despite a generous amount of throttle input. This makes the Alcazar a relaxed cruiser on those family drives.
Then there’s the Sport mode for when you don’t have to haul your family around. In Sport, the Alcazar feels energetic as the throttle response is sharper and the engine revs higher as the gearbox holds on to the gears longer. You can also take manual control over the gears, either via the steering-mounted paddle shifters or the ‘Tiptronic’ function of the gear lever, which adds that fun factor. The gearbox will also rev match on downshifts in Sport mode, which is entertaining. However, when driven pedal to the metal, the performance is quite similar across all three modes.
While performance and refinement are impressive, there is one negative aspect about the new Alcazar turbo DCT. At low speeds, especially in bumper-to-bumper traffic, it feels jerky when you get on and off the throttle, no matter how smooth you try to be with your inputs.
In our fuel efficiency tests, the Verna Turbo, which uses the same powertrain, managed 10.76kpl in the city and 16.05kpl out on the highway. Given that the Alcazar is a larger car and the fact that it weighs 185kg more than the Verna Turbo, takes a toll on the economy. While Hyundai claims the Alcazar turbo petrol will do 18kpl, we only managed to do around 8kpl in the city and a little over 12.5kpl on the highway, which isn’t great despite Hyundai introducing fuel-saving auto start/stop tech on this SUV. Interestingly, Hyundai says complaints of the 2.0 MPi's poor fuel economy is another reason they moved to the 1.5 Turbo, so its poor showing here is a little disappointing.
Fuel economyTest cycleFuel economyCity7.72kplHighway12.76kpl
However, it’s worth noting that our tests were carried out during peak summer with ambient temperatures hovering around 40 degrees Celsius. So the AC compressor was on for the entirety of our run, which meant the Alcazar didn’t automatically turn off even at traffic signals, impacting the fuel efficiency.
The change of powertrain, however, hasn’t changed the way the Alcazar rides and handles. At low speeds, the Alcazar’s ride does feel a touch firm and jittery. The MG Hector Plus feels a lot more supple here, but unlike the MG, which tends to pitch and bob at highway speeds, the Alcazar feels relatively well-behaved as you pick up the pace.

The Alcazar is a predictable handler too and so long as you don't treat it like a low-slung sedan, it'll remain confident around bends. The steering though is on the lighter side, which is a boon in the city and while parking, but you do wish it offered more feedback.
Hyundai has made a few subtle styling changes to the Alcazar, but you’ll need a keen eye to tell the differences. On the outside, the biggest change is the front grille that’s smaller than the one on the outgoing model and gets differently shaped elements within, in line with Hyundai’s new Parametric Dynamics design language. There’s also a Turbo badge on the tailgate and a DCT badge on the front right fender to signify its new powertrain. Interestingly, the Alcazar skips the new 2D satin-finished Hyundai logo that’s been featured on newer models and has stuck to the 3D, chrome-finished logo, which looks classier in my opinion.
The changes – or rather the change – inside are even less significant. The Alcazar Turbo gains a new auto start/stop function that can be manually turned off and the button for that has been added to the panel on the right side of the steering wheel which houses the starter and traction control buttons. Other than these nominal changes, the Alcazar remains unchanged.
The Alcazar USP remains the fact that it’s the only Hyundai model in India with a third row of seats. The front seats are comfy, ventilated and electrically powered, and the dual-tone cognac and black upholstery feels premium. You do get the option of a 7-seater, as seen here, with a bench seat in the middle row or a 6-seater with individual captain’s chairs in the Alcazar. Space in the middle row is ample, but the seats themselves aren’t as comfortable as the ones up front, while space in the third row is tight and is best reserved for kids, or for adults for a short time. The Alcazar is the smallest SUV in its class and you can feel that from the inside as you will have to find a legroom compromise between the third and sliding second row to accommodate taller passengers comfortably.
The Alcazar remains one of the better-equipped SUVs in the segment. Feature highlights include a 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster, a 10.25-inch touchscreen, ventilated seats, a panoramic sunroof, Bose audio system, an air purifier, 18-inch alloys and much more. The only feature addition for the Turbo is the auto start/stop tech. If we had to nitpick, Hyundai could have included some missing features in this update, like a heads-up display, electric tailgate, and ADAS tech, which is offered on not only rivals like the XUV700, Hector Plus and Safari, but even the cheaper Verna.
On the safety front, the Alcazar now gets six airbags as standard across the range. Other safety kit includes traction control, ESP, a 360-degree parking camera and disc brakes all around.
The Hyundai Alcazar 1.5 Turbo is priced from Rs 16.77 lakh for the entry-level 7-seater Prestige manual variant, going up to Rs 20.33 lakh for the top-spec Signature (O) 6-seat automatic. This Signature (O) 7-seat auto version we’ve tested is priced at Rs 20.28 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi).
When compared to the other three-row SUVs in the segment, the Alcazar is more user-friendly and easier to drive owing to its smaller dimensions, and it offers good value for money since it’s feature-rich and more affordable than the rivals at the top end. While most buyers would still prefer the diesel in this three-row SUV segment owing to their long-distance capabilities, the new Alcazar 1.5 Turbo proves to be a decent step up over the outgoing 2.0 MPi in terms of performance and it only makes the overall package spicier.
Also see:
Hyundai Alcazar 1.5 turbo-petrol video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
After close to a year in the fleet, the Hyundai Alcazar doesn’t cease to impress and remains our favourite for road trips.
The Hyundai Alcazar is my go-to car in our long-term fleet whenever I plan to undertake a long road trip. It ticks all the requirements I have from an SUV. To begin with, I really like its frugal nature and how easily it covers at least 800km on a full tank of diesel. Moreover, the space that it offers is also something that I appreciate a lot. You see, on most of my travel escapades I carry plenty of luggage, and, in addition to a very spacious cabin, the Alcazar’s boot is very versatile.
The third-row seats can be folded flat easily, and it instantly opens out a whole lot of luggage storage area. What I really like though are the seats, which, especially on long drives, have proven to be very comfortable. Speaking of comfort, I absolutely love the ventilated seats, which I am habituated to using. I must say, it is a superb feature to have especially if you drive in hotter cities like Mumbai.
It got a lot of appreciation from my family members on a recent day trip to Daman. Rear seat passengers liked the space and comfort offered in the back seat and that the rear windows had retractable sun blinds. They simply loved the panoramic sunroof, which, with the sunshade open, made the cabin a lot airier.  But a bigger highlight for them was the foldable trays that they found very useful. Another feature they used throughout the trip was the wireless phone charger in the rear seat. It’s good to have not one but two wireless phone chargers in the Alcazar. Third-row passengers also get a USB port for charging and air-con blower control.
I would have liked it to have wireless connectivity for Apple CarPlay, however, I now keep a dedicated iPhone cable in the car as a workaround. The downside to that though is that while using Apple CarPlay, the phone keeps getting charged, even when it’s not required. I would have also liked the ride quality to be firmer than its current set-up as it tends to move a bit more than required. But frankly, the list of likes is longer than things I don’t like about the Alcazar.
It’s no surprise that our Alcazar has already clocked 30,148km and reached its third scheduled service so soon  – the second service was done only a month and a half ago. With monsoons in Maharashtra just months away, this will be the perfect car to battle the flooded roads of Mumbai. Now, I am going to try and hang on to this SUV for a while.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-kona-electric
How do the MG ZS EV, Tata Nexon EV and Hyundai Kona Electric stack up, and which is the one that best meets your electric mobility needs? We plug you in.
The future might be electric but at present it’s the Hyundai Kona Electric, MG ZS EV and Tata Nexon EV that represent your most realistic EV options in India. They aren’t the most affordable of the kind but also don’t feel like experimental projects like the lower priced models of the variety tend to. Quite to the contrary, these three electric cars are absolutely contemporary and entice with ample range, new-age tech and long warranties.
The Tata Nexon EV (Rs 13.99-16.4 lakh, ex-showroom) might be the smallest SUV here but it also has price on its side, undercutting the other two by a good few lakhs. At the other end of the price chart, we have the Hyundai Kona Electric (Rs 23.75 -23.94 lakh) that’s a cool and quirky take on the electric SUV. And then there’s the ZS EV (Rs 20.88-23.58 lakh) that’s the largest model in this trio and in true MG style, packs in loads of content too. Concessions and rebates on purchase costs, discounted rates on charging and low maintenance make this as good a time as ever to think of going electric.
How well do these EVs fit into everyday life and what are they like as family cars is what we’re keen to know.
Let’s talk numbers first, starting with the one of most interest to EV buyers – range. On paper, it’s the Kona that’s the long-distance champion, with an official ARAI-certified figure of 452km. The MG ZS EV is rated with 340km while the Tata Nexon EV has a 312km official range. However, in our real-world range tests that comprise city and highway cycles (conducted with one person onboard and air-con on), we found the MG ZS EV to go the farthest, which is reflective of its sizeable 44.5kWh battery pack.
We derived a real-world range of 317km for the MG, 250km for the Kona Electric that uses a 39.2kWh lithium-ion battery, and 208km for the Nexon EV that draws power from a relatively small 30.2kWh Li-ion battery.
Do note, as with combustion engine cars, driving style, elevation changes, passenger load and the likes have a bearing on how rapidly EVs ‘drain their tanks’. A peculiarity of EVs, though, is that they deliver their best range in city driving and not on steady speed highway cruises. That’s because the constant stop-start driving in town maximises the effect of regenerative braking, which converts kinetic energy on deceleration to top up the batteries.
Portable chargers that work with 15 amp three-pin sockets are standard on all three cars. This method of charging will be the go-to option for most owners but it is slow (a full charge takes 20 hours on an MG, for instance) so it’s best to plug in after parking, as a matter of habit. Hyundai and MG do offer owners the option to install 7kW AC wall box chargers that bring down charge time to 6 hours and 8 hours, respectively. DC fast charging is the quickest option to juice up the EVs’ batteries and it’s encouraging that the charging network is slowly growing, if still only in urban clusters.
Each of these EVs comes powered by a permanent magnet synchronous motor that drives the front wheels via a single-speed gearbox. The Nexon EV’s motor might make the least power, with 129hp and 245Nm on call, but the Tata is no slowcoach. Like all EVs, the Nexon feels light on its feet and the build of speed is appreciably linear in standard ‘D’ drive mode. On tap throttle responses are instant and overtakings don’t require prior planning. ‘S’ mode, which unlocks full power, adds even more energy to the proceedings and it’s almost disorienting to be in such a brisk (and quiet) Nexon. In Sport mode, the Nexon EV will do the 0-100kph dash in 9.3sec, though the build of speed eases thereafter, before the car runs into its 120kph top-speed limiter. Yes, 120kph is all the Nexon will do. The Nexon is also the only one that doesn’t let you adjust the level of regen braking. While the regen feels natural in D, the car coasts a bit too freely in S.
With four drive modes and four levels of regen braking, the Kona Electric allows the most adjustability to the driving experience. Also unique to the Kona are steering-mounted paddles that let you toggle between the various levels of regen intensity. A long pull on the left paddle will bring your Kona Electric to a complete halt using regen braking alone, allowing one pedal operation, though the feature is not to be used as an alternative to the friction braking system in a panic scenario. The Hyundai’s motor puts out 136hp and a whopping 395Nm, and expectedly performance is strong. The Hyundai is zippy enough in Eco mode while Sport mode dials up the urgency to max; 0-100kph comes up in 9.09sec, though the Kona opens up a large gap to the Nexon by 120kph.
There’s no beating the MG ZS EV in terms of performance, however. It’s the quickest to 100kph, with a time of 8.53sec, and delivers the strongest push back on to your seat under hard acceleration. Part of the package are toggles for powertrain characteristics and regen that help personalise the experience. In everyday driving, the MG’s 143hp and 353Nm powertrain feels alert but actually not all too different from the Kona or even the Nexon. In fact, with their instant torque, linear delivery and near-silent performance, the electric motors are the great levelers here.
Powertrain and PerformanceTata Nexon EV LuxMG ZS EV ExclusiveHyundai Kona Electric PremiumMotorPermanent magnet synchronousPermanent magnet synchronousPermanent magnet synchronousPower129hp143hp136hpTorque245Nm353Nm395NmBattery30.2kWh lithium-ion44.5kWh lithium-ion39.2kWh lithium-ionPERFORMANCEAcceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)20kph1.51s1.18s1.2140kph2.87s2.39s2.4460kph4.36s3.79s4.0080kph6.47s5.82s6.16100kph9.30s8.53s9.09120kph16.12s12.38s12.92RANGEARAI312km340km452kmAs tested208km317km250kmCHARGING TIMEPortable charger (0-100%)10 hr (3.3kW)20 hr19 hr (2.8kW)AC wall box-6-8 hr (7kW; 0-80%)6 hr 10 min (7.2kW; 0-100%)DC fast charger (0-80%)1 hr (25kW)50 min (50kW)1 hr (50kW)The Ride Stuff
Like the standard Tata Nexon, the Nexon EV scores well on ride and handling. It feels solid, rounds off the bumps best and the slick steering is also nice to use. The Nexon’s relatively small size makes it the easiest to park too. You’ll also like how confidently the Nexon EV changes direction. However, you need to be measured with your throttle inputs out of corners, especially in Sport mode. There’s no ESC or traction control to rein in the power and hard acceleration tends to overwhelm the Nexon’s front tyres.
You’ll hear a chirp from the Kona’s tyres every now and then, but the electronics are quick to kick in to keep things under control. The Kona feels the most dynamic, if only just, and it’s got a likeable steering too. However, the Kona has the most road noise and tends to feel clunky over bad roads too.
The MG ZS EV distinguishes itself with the most hushed cabin. You hear minimal road noise and even the motor whine sounds the most distant. On occasion, it’s a thwack from the MG’s suspension that will break the calm inside. Ride comfort is good even if there is an underlying firmness to the setup.
Tata Motors has jazzed up the Nexon’s smart cabin with new colours and lighter trim but it’s the new leatherette upholstered seats that do the most to help the look of things inside. The seats are also superbly padded and it’s not overstating things to say that the rear bench offers sofa-like comfort. Also, while the Nexon EV is the smallest model here, there’s ample legroom and headroom at the back, and enough space for a fifth passenger to squeeze in as well.
The MG ZS is the most convincing 5-seater here, offering the most in terms of shoulder room and legroom at the back. The massive panoramic sunroof only adds to the sense of space inside. But for all its space, the MG does have some negatives. Rear seat occupants are sat in a knees up position and there’s no rear centre armrest. The MG is the most generous in terms of soft touch materials inside and this does give the cabin a premium air.
The Kona Electric carries its funky exterior theme on the inside, with a distinctive dashboard that’s characterised by a wide centre console and free-standing touchscreen. Sadly, there are a few too many hard plastics in the cabin. You also sit relatively low in the Kona Electric and don’t get that elevated driving position SUVs are known for. The Hyundai also cedes ground when talking rear-seat space and comfort. Despite the longest wheelbase, the Kona is tight on kneeroom. Headroom is in short supply too and the knee-up seating position isn’t ideal either.
DimensionsTata Nexon EV LuxMG ZS EV ExclusiveHyundai Kona Electric PremiumLength (mm)399343144180Width (mm)181118091800Height (mm)160616201570Wheelbase (mm)249825852600Ground Clearance (mm)205161172Kerb Weight1400kg1518kg1535kgFeature Story
It’d be asking for too much to expect the Nexon EV that’s the most affordable car here to match its pricier rivals on kit. For its part, the Tata gets you the comfort essentials and then some more. Still, a better infotainment screen, higher-res rear view camera and more detailed EV data display would be on our wish list. And while at it, Tata could also redo the rotary gear selector, which isn’t the most intuitive to use.
The MG ZS EV’s feature set is long and is headlined by the panoramic sunroof and 8.0-inch touchscreen with connected tech. However, items like auto climate control, an auto-dimming rear-view mirror and a rear-centre armrest are curious omissions. The Kona Electric is the only car without connected tech and the screen isn’t great either. That being said, LED headlights, heated and cooled front seats and wireless phone charging are features exclusive to the Kona.
In terms of safety kit, the Nexon EV misses out on the side and curtain airbags, ESC and rear disc brakes that the Kona Electric and ZS EV get. All three cars do boast of a high level of protection for their battery packs.
Equipment and warrantyTata Nexon EV LuxMG ZS EV ExclusiveHyundai Kona Electric PremiumAirbags266ESCNAAvailableAvailableLED headlightsNANAAvailableCruise controlNAAvailableAvailableTouchscreen7.0-inch8.0-inch7.0-inchConnected techAvailableAvailableNAWireless phone chargerNANAAvailableSunroofAvailablePanoramicAvailableVentilated front seatsNANAAvailablePowered driver’s seatNAAvailableAvailableElectric parking brakeNAAvailableAvailableWarrantyVehicle3 year/ 1,25,000km5 year/ unlimited km3 year/ unlimited kmBattery8 year/ 1,60,000km8 year/ 1,50,000km8 year/ 1,60,000kmShock Verdict
It was the Hyundai Kona Electric that introduced Indian buyers to a truly sophisticated electric vehicle not too long ago and it still appeals for the right reasons. It’s zippy, has ample range and it’s also quite well equipped. Where the Kona Electric loses out is in rear seat space and cabin quality, which is not quite in keeping with the car’s price. It looks the least SUV-like too. At Rs 23.94 lakh, it’s the most expensive of the lot and hard to justify.
The MG ZS EV isn’t a hardcore SUV either, but it has the upright stance most buyers like, and the relatively large size also makes you feel your money’s been well spent. It betters its EV rivals on space and is also deeply impressive when judged as an electric car. It’s fast and quiet and the ability to go long on a single charge makes the MG the most versatile of the three EVs. The thing is, as good as the ZS EV is on range, it still doesn’t grant the freedom of movement that you get with a combustion engine car. Short jaunts out of town are easy but you can’t go exploring the countryside without exploring the relatively short list of fast-charging stations on the way beforehand. Fact is, long road trips in the best of EVs require advance planning, and an adventurous streak always helps.
Given the reality of the situation, electric cars are best thought of and bought as urban vehicles. And seen in this light, it’s the Tata Nexon EV that makes a great deal of sense. Yes, it’s got the least range but the ability to go 200-odd kilometres on a full charge is more than sufficient for typical use case scenarios. And restrictive as the 120kph speed limiter might seem, it’s a non-issue in town. What’s more, the Nexon EV doesn’t feel like a compromise in other areas. Sure, the Nexon is down on gizmos and a slicker infotainment system would be nice but the basics are solid. The powertrain runs quiet, performance is pleasant and overall comfort and practicality are really good too. In a manner of speaking, the Nexon EV addresses the standard Nexon’s chinks (loud engine, clunky gearbox and imperfect clutch) while retaining the very best of the compact SUV. Spend time with a Nexon EV and you’ll question the need to pay so much more for the alternatives. The Nexon EV, then, might not be all the car you need but, given the current limitations of infrastructure which keeps EVs city bound, it could be all the EV you need.
Verdict and priceTata Nexon EV LuxMG ZS EV ExclusiveHyundai Kona Electric PremiumVerdictHas its limitations but fits the bill as a competent urban EV.The EV with the least compromises but for a price.Good as an EV. Loses on value, significantly down on space too.Rating8/10 [OUR CHOICE]8/107/10Price (ex-showroom, Delhi)Rs 16.4 lakhRs 23.58 lakhRs 23.94 lakh
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Driving around the city without a care for range has been hugely rewarding but we’ve also discovered some foibles.
I thought the Kona EV would cure me of the Indian obsession with ‘Kitna deti hai?’, but to the contrary, this question has ruled my life for the six months I’ve been living with the car. No, it’s not because of frighteningly high electricity bills, a racket Mumbaikars have been a victim of, but about how many kilometres will I get on a single charge.
The thing is, the absence of a charging network makes range the single biggest limitation that holds back EVs from being all-purpose cars. The fast chargers will come but until then EVs are essentially city cars that need a parking spot with a charging point. Luckily, I have two, one at home and one in the office, which gives me the added flexibility to meet all my commuting needs. As a result, I don’t feel the need to charge at either end every day, in fact there’s enough range to go several days without charging.
I love the way the Kona EV has settled into my daily routine and there’s never been an occasion when I’ve been forced to readjust my schedule because I’m out of juice. The key is to never let the battery charge drop below 50 percent, which in effect always gives me a range of more than 130km.
Using the Hyundai Kona EV as a daily driver for the past six months, I’ve developed an intimate understanding of its 39.2 kWh lithium-ion battery and the rate at which it gets depleted. I know how many kWh will be gulped when I press the Sport mode button and rocket off the lights. I know how many kWh I can harvest by switching to Eco mode and tugging the left paddle to select level 3, the most aggressive regenerative braking mode. I also know how many kWh go back into the battery after charging it during a full day at office.
Since I can’t be bothered about range or conserving battery life, I’ve indulged myself by sticking to Sport mode, with the regen level set to zero. This combination rewards the driver the most – you get max power and torque from the moment you press the accelerator, with no regeneration (it kicks in from level 1) the brakes feel natural, and when you lift off, the Kona coasts normally. No, I haven’t tried one-pedal driving yet but will give that a shot for the next report.
For now, I’m just loving the hair-trigger pedal response and explosive burst of acceleration, which is very very addictive. I fear I’m going to wear out the front tyres, which chirp for grip, pretty soon. I also love how quiet the Kona EV is and the complete lack of ‘engine’ noise (except for a faint hum from the motor when you decelerate) is quite a soothing experience and actually takes the stress out of a long day at work. What’s stressful is when others can’t hear you, and this lack of noise can be actually be quite dangerous, especially with pedestrians who, in most cases, think they own the road. In fact, the horn is the most important safety device and when tacking the hugely congested Saat Rasta roundabout, where cyclists, handcarts, pick-ups, and people, all converge on the same square centimetre of road as you, my one hand is always resting on the steering’s horn, boss. Other countries have made it mandatory for EVs to be equipped with an alarm that emits a warning sound at low speeds for pedestrians to hear. That’s what we need.
With the Kemps Corner flyover shut for repairs, I experimented using an alternative route via Mumbai Central to get to our Byculla office and back. And it’s on this route I discovered that the Kona EV’s ground clearance is appallingly inadequate for what is a quasi-SUV. Two huge speed breakers made contact with the underbody and put paid to any ideas of using this route regularly. The trouble with EVs is that the battery pack,which is usually placed under the floor, seriously eats into ground clearance.
Ironic, then, that range is not the biggest speed bump for the Kona EV, but a speed bump itself is.
Also see:
Hyundai Kona Electric long term review, first report
Hyundai Kona Electric long term review, second report
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
This practical EV doesn’t need to be charged frequently and has cured us of range anxiety.
Range. It’s always on your mind; you have one eye on the battery’s state of charge (SOC) and you never want to wander too far from an electrical socket.
Range is the most crucial consideration factor for most EV drivers. That’s what I thought too. But after living for many months with the Kona EV (the last three in various degrees of lockdown), I’ve developed a rather blasé attitude towards something that had put the fear of God in me ever since I nearly ran out of charge in the original Reva over a decade ago. So have I been cured of range anxiety? You could say that because I am no longer gripped with panic even when the SOC meter drops to 10 percent. I know I’ll have enough juice for another 30km at least if I ‘hypermile’ in Eco mode, and that distance has been my outer limit on my daily drive for most of the time the Kona EV has been with me.
The furthest I’ve strayed from my wall plugs and the first time I left Mumbai city limits in the Kona was to meet the new Honda City in Vashi. The Kona doubled as a back-up car, but not before it got an overnight charge to fully top up the lithium-ion battery. That gave me an indicated range of 204km with the air con switched on and sufficient peace of mind for a full day out. The truth is, the EV was mainly parked at our shoot location (we spent most of the day shooting and driving the new City), but I had no hesitation zipping up and down Palm Beach road, in the hunt for a quiet spot to base ourselves. On that day, I covered a total of 86km and had a good 53 percent charge left, which equated to a balanced range of 124km. So as an extra-urban commuter, the Kona EV does the job.
What’s very handy is the amount of information the on-board computer throws up, especially the ‘consumption’ history of every trip, which can vary wildly, depending on your driving style and the mode you are in. Driving in ‘Eco’ with the regen set to level 3, I could eke out 7.8km for every kWh of the 39.2kWh battery, which translates to a range of over 300km. In contrast, a few ferocious stabs of the nicely sprung accelerator pedal, with the regen set to 0 and mode to ‘Sport’ had a debilitating effect on the battery. On empty roads, in the midst of Lockdown 4.0, the temptation to floor it and extract every kilowatt from the single permanent-magnet synchronous, 136hp electric motor was very high. The instant torque, and the burst of acceleration off the traffic lights that leaves everyone else standing is pretty addictive; and you really don’t care if that sends the range tumbling south. The worst figure I ever got was 4.2km/kWh, which equated to a sharply reduced range of under 170km, but more than enough to get me home.
There’s lots to like about the Kona, which, like most EVs, is easier to drive than anything with an internal combustion engine. It’s the linearity of every action, from the throttle response to the steering and brakes, that makes this car so natural and predictable to drive. The different levels of regeneration can be selected using the paddleshifters behind the wheel but what’s really cool is that they mimic gearshifts. Increasing or decreasing the levels of regen changes the level of resistance, and you feel like you’re going up or down a gear. It’s something I enjoyed playing with.
Gripes? The ride is a bit stiff-kneed due to the taut sidewalls of the low rolling resistance tyres. The grooves on the front ‘grille’ pick up a lot of dirt and are difficult to clean, and the black interiors, which hasn’t got much love and attention during the lockdown, isn’t looking fresh either.
The best bit? I must be the only guy who’s beaten the insane fuel price hikes; I haven’t visited a petrol pump in over three months!
Also see:
Hyundai Kona Electric long term review, first report
Hyundai Kona Electric vs MG ZS EV comparison
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
In this first-of-its-kind comparison, we test two premium all-electric cars to find out how practical and usable they are in the real world.
From once being mere ‘green’ statements, electric vehicles (EVs) today have evolved into everyday cars that can be as practical as their internal combustion engine (ICE) counterparts, if driven within a limited range.
To start with, both the EVs are based on heavily modified platforms of their respective ICE versions that are currently on sale in international markets. What’s reassuring is that the MG ZS EV secured a 5-star Euro NCAP safety rating; and even though the Kona Electric hasn’t been crash tested yet, its ICE version did secure a 5-star rating in the test.
There’s a lot to like about the ZS EV’s no-nonsense design. Its flat bonnet, upright stature and conventional ‘SUV’ styling cues are likely to garner wider acceptance, especially among ‘SUV’ lovers. For starters, the chrome-studded front grille housing the large ‘MG’ logo looks bold and distinctive. What’s unique is that it cleverly conceals the charging socket that can be accessed by pressing the logo and raising the ‘flap’. While this concept is neat, the touch and feel of the flap is quite plasticky. The turbine-inspired 17-inch alloys look rather stylish but the ‘Electric’ badge on the fenders and the ‘Internet Inside’ badge could have been more tastefully executed. The Kona, on the other hand, stands out in a crowd thanks to its unconventional front grille, and some distinctive elements like the split headlamps and the striking alloy wheels that nicely fill the wheel arches. The thick plastic body cladding all around conveys its SUV pretensions, but it’s still more crossover than an imposing SUV. It is smaller than the MG in nearly every way and only boasts a longer wheelbase. Also while both these cars weigh a little over one-and-a-half tonne due to their heavy battery packs, the Kona is heavier by 17kg.
Getting into the MG’s cabin is rather easy, given its upright stance and high seating. There’s an uncanny German design influence on the inside, with several parts resembling those on Volkswagen vehicles, and the quality of materials and tactility of switches feel very premium. All the touchpoints are padded and these lift the cabin’s appeal, as does the panoramic sunroof that floods the interiors with light. The driver’s seat has electric adjustment, but the front seats lack lumbar adjustment, and due to the short seat base, thigh support is inadequate.
While there isn’t any reach adjustment for the steering, getting into an ideal driving position is fairly easy, and most drivers will appreciate the fact that visibility all around is very good and the bonnet lies in their field of vision. The ZS’ backseat is the more spacious of the two and the cushioning is softer, but it isn’t too comfy as the passengers are seated in a knees-up position (due to the battery placed beneath the floor), and thigh support is also lacking.
Coming to the Hyundai Kona, its cabin feels rather underwhelming as the all-black interiors and small glass area affect the sense of space. Also, the hard plastics and several bits shared with other Hyundais don’t feel special enough in this Rs 23.74 lakh car. The free-standing touchscreen looks rather dated, but the large shortcut buttons make it very convenient to use on the move.

The best part about the interiors are the front seats; they are way comfier, and offer more adjustment and support than the MG’s. What’s more, the seat-cooling function really elevates the drive experience. Visibility, however, is poor due to the small rear windscreen. Like the MG, the Kona’s floor is also raised, so passengers in the rear are seated in a knees-up position, and space, especially knee- and foot-room, are pretty tight. The backseat is better shaped here and comfier, and it gets an armrest as well as a third (adjustable) neck restraint, both of which are missing in the ZS EV.
Both cars have ample storage areas in the front and rear. While it is the MG that leads when it comes to boot space (359 litres vs the Kona’s 332 litres), the Hyundai offers the flexibility of 60:40 split rear seats to accommodate more cargo.
For the money, these cars offer standard safety kit like hill-start assist, six airbags, ESP and all-wheel disc brakes to name a few. Both get equipment such as a tyre pressure monitor, auto headlamps, electric driver’s seat, sunroof, 17-inch alloys, cruise control, touchscreen with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, and driving modes. MG has packed in a panoramic sunroof as well as SIM-based connectivity features, which have caught the fancy of buyers lately. Those aside, the Kona gets even more premium kit like LED headlamps, wireless charging, cooled/heated front seats, paddleshifters, auto-dimming inside mirror, automatic climate control and a rear armrest, all of which are missing on the ZS EV.
What you get for your moneyMG ZS EV ExclusiveHyundai Kona Electric PremiumPrice (ex-showroom, Delhi)Rs 23.58 lakhRs 23.72 lakhEQUIPMENTESPYesYesHill-start assistYesYesAll-wheel disc brakesYesYesSunroofPanoramicYes17-inch alloysYesYesAuto climate controlNAYesCooled/heated seatsNAYesSIM-based connectivityYesNATyre pressure monitorYesYesWireless chargingNAYesElectric parking brakeYesYesAirbags66LED headlightsNAYesDriving modes34Cruise controlYesYesAndroid Auto/Apple CarPlayYesYesPerformance
MG has deployed a larger 44.5kWh battery pack to power the ZS EV’s motor, which makes 143hp and 353Nm of torque. The Kona uses a smaller 39.2kWh battery to power its motor which makes 136hp but a whopping 395Nm of torque. The way these perform in the city are quite similar, and both are extremely responsive to inputs – a mere flex of your right foot is enough to zip past traffic with very linear power delivery.
Even in Eco mode, both the cars have enough pep to keep you entertained. These cars have a regenerative braking function wherein each time you lift your foot off the accelerator, the motor uses the kinetic energy (deceleration forces) of the vehicle to recharge the batteries. So, each time you lift your foot, the car begins to decelerate due to this function. Both cars offer three levels of regeneration, with level one being the least intrusive and three being the most aggressive.
To adjust the regen levels in the ZS EV you have to toggle a switch on the centre console. The Kona gets paddles behind the wheel to increase or decrease the regen levels and that’s nice because clicking the left paddle mimics downshifting as it increases the regen levels and hence the electrical braking, which is particularly strong here. In max regen mode, you don’t need the brakes to slow the car down; the strong electrical braking can bring it to a stop. Driving both cars in max regeneration isn’t particularly smooth because every time you lift your leg off the accelerator pedal, it feels like you’ve dabbed the brakes.
Shift to Sport mode and the difference in performance becomes a lot more noticeable, with the MG’s larger battery proving its mettle.
Flat-out, the MG out-accelerates the Kona from 0-100kph, and even proves to be quicker during roll-on acceleration runs from 20-80kph and 40-100kph. It is only beyond 120kph that the Kona begins to reel the ZS EV in, and it goes on to reach a higher top speed of 158kph – 6kph more than the MG.
Being all-electric, there’s no sound on start-up or on the move, but the motor emits a faint whine at higher speeds. While ambient and road noises do filter through, the ZS EV’s cabin is the better-insulated one here, and this has been authenticated by our sound level meter.
PerformanceMG ZS EVHyundai Kona ElectricACCELERATION (kph)0-20kph1.18 sec1.21 sec0-40kph2.39 sec2.44 sec0-60kph3.79 sec4.00 sec0-80kph5.82 sec6.16 sec0-100kph8.53 sec9.09 sec0-120kph12.38 sec12.92 sec20-80kph4.56 sec4.92 sec40-100kph5.96 sec6.52 secBRAKING DISTANCE80-0kph24.79m26.97mOVERALL RANGETested317km250kmNOISE LEVEL (dB)Idle27.2dB28.5dBAt 50kph64.2dB65.9dBAt 80kph67.8dB68.9dBIdle with AC at half42dB44.7dBIdle with AC full61.5dB55.7dBRange & Charging
Let’s get to the most crucial factor of this comparison – range. For our tests, we drove the cars back to back in Eco mode, with the air-conditioning and infotainment system switched on.
Electric cars behave quite differently compared to ICE cars, so while in stop-go traffic ICE cars consume more fuel, the regenerative function in EVs recharges the batteries more often, thus maximising their range. On the other hand, while cruising, EVs consume energy to maintain a constant speed, hence they’d be less efficient on the highway than in the city.
In our earlier test, the Kona achieved a maximum figure of 309km but that test was conducted in more favourable conditions. We have since updated our EV range test protocol to be more reflective of real-world conditions and this explains the drop in the Kona Electric's range.
While it doesn’t come as a surprise that the ZS EV travels farther on a single charge in the real world, due to its larger battery pack, the official Modified Indian Driving Cycle (MIDC) test conducted by ARAI, it was the Hyundai Kona that achieved a staggering range of 452km, while the MG managed merely 340km in the same testing cycle. True, the MIDC cycle, which has a top-speed limit of only 50kph, can skew results, but what it also shows that in no way are the MIDC figures representative of real-world conditions and they should be taken with a pinch of salt.
Hyundai and MG provide a three-pin portable charger as well as a 7kWh wall-box unit with the cars (Hyundai’s is 7.2kWh). In our tests, using a three-pin socket, both cars recharged roughly 10 percent of their battery every two hours, and while the Kona took 19 hours to reach a full charge, the ZS EV did the same in around 20 hours. Using the wall-box charger, however, does the job faster – Hyundai claims the Kona’s batteries will fully charge from zero in around six hours, while the MG should take about eight hours. Both these cars support DC fast-charging too, but this form of charging infrastructure is still scant in the country.

And how much does it cost to run these cars? Considering the cost of electricity at Rs 7 per unit, which is on the higher side, it would cost you around Rs 320 to recharge the ZS EV, while the Kona will set you back by Rs 280 per charge. And purely considering the cost of electricity, their running cost is Rs 1-1.12 per kilometre, which is 5-7 times cheaper than a petrol or diesel car at the same price point.
# Kona Electric range on display figure is with climate control on.
Riding on 17-inch wheels and hard compound, low-rolling resistance tyres, both these cars feel a bit harsh initially over sharp potholes. Get past that initial layer of firmness though and it is the MG’s softer suspension that cushions you better from road shocks at low and city speeds. The Kona, on the other hand, with its stiff suspension, feels a lot more composed and planted at higher speeds. These cars have a low centre of gravity as their heavy battery packs are placed beneath the floor, so they change directions rather well and feel nicely planted.
But it is the Hyundai which feels sportier to drive due to its multilink rear suspension and tauter chassis. And while neither car’s steering offers the ‘connected’ feel, it is the Kona’s unit that is a touch weightier and imparts more confidence.
The Hyundai Kona is an impressive car – it is smooth to drive, and with a range of 250km on a single charge, it’s fairly practical too. Then consider all the premium kit it packs in, as well as the more sophisticated multi-link rear suspension, and there’s a lot it delivers for the money. Its sportier driving dynamics, comfier seats and Hyundai’s strong backing further strengthen the Kona’s case. What works against it though is its cramped rear seat, and the fact that its interiors don’t feel special or premium enough. It is also the pricier of the two.
The MG ZS EV outperforms the Kona when it comes to two crucial factors – range and interior space, and that makes it the more practical of the two. A real-world range of 317km on a single charge could be reason enough to sway the comparison in its favour, but the MG has a lot more going for it to make it a more complete, everyday EV. MG’s five-year standard warranty is very reassuring since long-term maintenance costs on an EV is still unknown.
Yes, it misses out on several features, including something as basic as automatic climate control, but MG has compensated for that by offering a panoramic sunroof and connectivity features. Tally up the pluses and minuses and you’ll find that the MG ZS EV wins this all-electric comparison test quite convincingly.
VerdictMG ZS EVHyundai Kona ElectricFORRangeSporty characterSpacious cabinWell equippedAGAINSTMisses several featuresCramped cabinInteriors don't feel premium enoughRATING8/107/10Hyundai Kona Electric₹ 27.40 lakh * on road price (New Delhi)FIND OUT MOREImagesVideos2019 Hyundai Kona Electric image gallery10504 Views|4 years agoUpcoming Hyundai and Kia electric cars for India video9035 Views|2 years agoMG ZS EV vs Tata Nexon EV vs Hyundai Kona Electric compar...37683 Views|2 years agoHyundai Kona Electric buyer's guide video8311 Views|4 years agoHOT LAP: Hyundai Kona Electric Autocar India Track Day 20...13274 Views|4 years ago
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
hyundai-tucson
Second report: Big on the inside, comfy and well-equipped, the Tucson is a relaxing and easy car to get along with.
The new Tucson is an SUV that has elevated Hyundai into a higher league, and this is evident as soon as you spend some time in the car. Areas that immediately stand out are the build quality of the cabin, the superb blend of materials, the space and comfort on the inside and a great selection of new tech.
What also shines through, even over the span of a short city drive, are refinement and sophistication. The manner in which the Tucson shuts the world outside and reduces road noise in the cabin on my regular commute to the office is particularly pleasing.
Also amping up the ‘luxury’ quotient are the materials used on the dash and the nicely executed metallic highlights, and then there’s the width of the cabin and the space available on the second row. The fact that you have the luxury of space is particularly evident on a long weekend outside the city. The boot swallows all our luggage effortlessly, with room to spare, and the large 54-litre fuel tank means we can go all the way to Mulshi, onwards to Pune and then back without having to refuel. It’s so comfortable on a long drive, that we get out of the Tucson still feeling fresh.
The drive experience itself, however, isn’t as impressive. The gearbox is slow to respond and often engages suddenly, performance is just average, and what really gets you is that fuel economy can plummet if you try and extract some more performance – 8.6kpl is what I average in the city. And that’s without squeezing the right pedal too hard. What’s worse, Eco mode is too restrictive and Normal is too reactive, so you are sort of stuck in no man’s land. The steering is linear and has no sudden steps in it, like some Hyundais in the past, but the ride isn’t as comfortable as it should be on a car of this size and spec. It does take regular blemishes and bumps pretty well but easily gets upset by deeper and larger holes.
I do like having the ADAS on though. Yes, driving it through small lanes with bikers and pedestrians criss-crossing close to the car means you have to turn off the automatic braking (that feels like you’ve hit a wall when it engages). And you have to go into a menu and do it manually every time you start the car. Still, the myriad of other ADAS features like the semi-autonomous adaptive cruise control, blind spot assist, warning beeps when someone is crossing, and others work really well. In fact, what’s really cool is that I manage the entire length of the expressway on the semi-autonomous cruise control, only nudging the steering wheel when required. It’s pretty cool and relaxing like monitoring things like a pilot, with the Tucson managing all but the tightest corners and some poorly lined sections with ease. The most impressive bit though is how the adaptive cruise control maintains its distance with the car in front and either speeds up or slows down effectively.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
First report: Is Hyundai’s premium SUV a worthy upgrade from your midsize SUV?
Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome aboard the Hyundai Tucson, the newest addition to our long-term fleet. I’ll be its custodian for the next couple of months and its arrival in my life simulates a very realistic, natural upgrade up the SUV pecking order from my last long-termer – the midsized Skoda Kushaq. Our Tucson is a petrol-automatic in fully loaded Signature trim, which is the spec of choice for anyone spooked by the government’s increasingly vocal anti-diesel stance.
I’ll get to the finer details in a bit because you can’t talk Tucson and not talk of the way it looks first. The waterfall effect Daytime Running Lamps up front, the mad angles at the sides and the distinct tail-lights elicited praise even from non-car folk (my family!). And then there’s the size. It’s much larger than it looks in pictures, and occupies way more parking real estate than your average midsize SUV. The combined effect is an SUV that’s big on size and flash; important for a premium SUV for premium money.
Inside too, you get the impression that your money has been well spent. The generous use of soft materials for the dash top counts for a lot and even smaller details like the knurled wiper and light stalks won’t be lost on you. I also really like the low dashboard cowl that affords great visibility. However, I can’t seem to find an ideal seating position. I find front seat shoulder support insufficient (noted in other Hyundais too) forcing me to sit in a more upright position than I’d like. No faulting the seat for features though. There’s powered adjust, memory, ventilation and heating. Oh, and there’s boss seat controls too that move the front passenger seat forwards to maximise rear legroom.
At full extension, it makes the already roomy Tucson’s rear section feel vast. The tech overload includes lovely digital dials and a slick 10.25-inch touchscreen. Why Hyundai couldn’t engineer wireless functionality for Android Auto and Apple CarPlay beats me though.
I haven’t spent all that much time with the Tucson, but I already have a ritual in place. And that is to switch off the auto emergency braking (forward collision mitigation) on start up. You see, as noble as the feature (part of a handily long ADAS suite), it’s best used in higher speed settings. The system is far too sensitive for typical low-speed city crawls, applying full brakes in a scenario in which I’d probably just feather the brake pedal.
It’s caught me off guard on more than one occasion and I’d rather retain full control. What’s an irritant is that the system defaults to full auto braking every time you switch the vehicle off. Of the other features, the rear cross-traffic alert is a boon and the blind-view camera system that relays a feed of blindspots on the instrument console is particularly useful. It’s a feature I miss when I’m testing a car without it.
What I can’t say is that I’m a big fan of the Tucson’s 156hp, 192Nm, 2.0-litre naturally aspirated petrol engine. It’s smooth and quiet but doesn’t give the go to match the Tucson’s show. The lack of fizz I can live with, but what really pinches is the economy. I’ve managed a best of 8kpl, but the real-time figure is usually around the 6kpl mark. The distance to empty figure drops alarmingly after tanking up. Who’d have thought I’d experience range anxiety in a petrol car!
I hope to see the economy number improve dramatically on an upcoming road trip to Pune. The longer drive will also give me a chance to experience more of the ADAS functions. And yeah, the family’s verdict on rear seat comfort should be interesting too. Stay tuned.
Also see
2022 Hyundai Tucson video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
With accomplished smaller siblings like the Creta and Alcazar, you can bet Hyundai’s new flagship SUV has upped its game.
Some of our younger readers might not remember this, but the Tucson first came to India in 2005, when the Indian car market was a whole different beast. The first-generation SUV, which also used a 2.0-litre diesel engine with AWD, was a CBU import and cost a princely Rs 14.3 lakh, ex-showroom. It was a niche product for Hyundai, but it set the groundwork for what we’re driving today.
The 2022 Hyundai Tucson is assembled in India, costs Rs 34 lakh, and uses a 2.0-litre diesel engine with AWD, but it’s no longer a niche product for the brand, whose status as a maker of premium vehicles has since been well cemented. In fact, with strong competition and buyers with more spending power than ever before, the time is ripe for this flagship SUV to shine. So, can it?
It gets off to a great start just with the way it looks. Edgy designs can be polarising, and this might alienate traditional buyers with more conservative tastes, but Hyundai’s new Parametric Dynamics design will surely be a hit with the increasingly younger clientele we’re told are shopping in this segment.
The new Tucson brings some serious wow factor with its sharply cut bodywork that seems to draw inspiration from the likes of the Lamborghini Urus. There’s even a brushed metal trim piece that curves along the top of the window line, making this seem like a coupe SUV, even though it is not. Also very apparent from the side is that this is the new long-wheelbase version, which Hyundai says was a no-brainer for the chauffeur-driven Indian market, and the smart 18-inch alloy wheels sitting under large, angular arches.
The rear has some particularly interesting details, like the rear wiper being concealed under the roof-mounted spoiler and the Hyundai logo integrated within the windscreen glass itself. The minimalist tail-lamp array is a continuous, slim band of LEDs ending in a pair of slashes on either side, but this has meant the indicators and reverse lamps have moved down to the bumper.
The main attraction, however, is front and centre. The Tucson’s new nose is far removed from its predecessor, and in fact, just about any Hyundai on sale in India. The sharp ‘Parametric’ elements in the grille are finished in dark chrome, and fan outward into an array of angular LEDs shaped like wings. These LEDs, when turned off, blend away into the grille itself, while the headlamps are located lower down, in the bumper. It can be polarising, but there’s no doubt it will turn heads.
The interior is a little less radical, and quite similar to the layout we first saw in the Creta. The gloss black centre console (more on this later) flows up to the top of the dash and spreads out in either direction, ending in the outer AC vents. A nice, premium touch are the slim vents on the top of the dash, which 'diffuse' the AC draft gently rather than focusing it.The steering wheel looks a lot like the Creta’s too, but has better-finished control switches, and behind it sits the Alcazar’s 10.25-inch digital dial screen, except that it’s free-standing with no shroud, rather than sitting under a hooded binnacle – just like in the new S-Class!
Lower down in the centre console, you’ll find the gear lever from the Creta (no button selector like you get overseas), seat heating/cooling switches, ample stowage space, an electronic parking brake and controls for the drive modes. The 10.25-inch touchscreen blends seamlessly into its gloss black housing, as do the AC controls below, which are all touch. The idea is for the whole centre console to look like a continuous black mirror when switched off, but in practice, it’s a little fiddly to use on the go.
It is similar in design, then, but what’s taken a huge step forward is the quality. Save for the transmission tunnel, the entire dashboard is soft-touch material, as are the door cards, which are inlaid with a sophisticated fabric trim. The light grey leatherette upholstery feels rich (although it shows stains very easily), and the metallic inserts in the front seats add a premium air. Even the column stalks behind are finished in a knurled gloss black plastic; it all looks very rich.
The powered front seats, much like the old Tucson, will feel a bit too low at their lowest setting, but thankfully offer a long range of adjustment so even shorter drivers can get comfy. And comfy they will be with generous cushioning, heating and ventilation up front.
It’s in the back seat where the Tucson really excels, and the 2,755mm wheelbase (85mm longer than the previous car’s) that pays dividends. Leg room is ample, letting even taller passengers stretch out, and there’s a healthy gap between your head and the panoramic sunroof. This lets a lot of light into the cabin, as do the large rear windows, but as with the previous car, you’re sat a little low to the floor, which robs some thigh support and doesn’t give you that theatre-like view forward that you want in an SUV. Cushioning is just spot on, though, and there is a huge amount of recline for the backrest. There are rear AC vents though, but no blower or temperature control, and we would have liked to see window blinds here too; even the Alcazar has them!
The long wheelbase also means the seating area doesn’t compromise the boot, which at 540 litres, is seriously vast. Our crew of four was able to fit all their stroller bags and gear in comfortably, with room to spare, so airport runs should be a piece of cake in the new Tucson. Bear in mind, though, the spare wheel is a space saver.
Yes, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) is the talking point of the new Hyundai Tucson, and this is the first model from the brand in India to offer it. Hyundai says this is a Level 2 system and that includes adaptive cruise control, emergency auto braking, lane departure warning and assist, lane watch camera, blind spot warning, driver attention monitor, 360-degree cameras and rear cross traffic assist. Hyundai said special care was taken to calibrate the system for Indian conditions, including sensor sensitivity, delay before intervention, the degree of intervention, and the amount of driver input required.
For once, this effort really shows, as the Tucson’s ADAS feels helpful and not distracting (or worse, overly intrusive) in typical Indian road conditions. The systems don’t overreact to errant road users, there’s just the right amount of delay before active intervention, it can read worn out lane markings and even the auto steering correction isn’t too forceful. It should be noted, though, that ‘critical’ safety features like auto emergency braking, if turned off, will automatically switch on again when the car is started next.
Even when it comes to more conventional features, the Tucson is, expectedly, packed with them. Highlights include dual-zone climate control, a panoramic sunroof, auto headlamps and wipers, powered front seats with driver-side memory, front seat heating and ventilation, wireless phone charging, on and off-road drive modes (the latter only in the AWD version), connected car tech with Alexa and Google Assistant support, and, of course, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, albeit not wireless. There are USB ports for both rows of seats, but they are type A, not type C.
An area where not much has changed with the Tucson is its powertrains. As before, you get a 2.0-litre naturally aspirated petrol mated to a 6-speed torque-converter auto, and a 2.0-litre turbo-diesel mated to an 8-speed torque-converter auto, the latter getting the option of AWD on the top model. This time, however, there are no manual gearboxes.
Hyundai estimates about 70 percent of Tucson sales to be diesels, and with its headlining figures of 186hp and 416Nm, there’s a lot to be excited about. It’s not the performance that strikes you first though; it’s the refinement, and whether at standstill or on the move, the engine remains well muted. The 8-speed auto is remarkably smooth, ushering you off the line without any drama or jerkiness and hustling through its ratios seamlessly. You don’t get paddle shifters in the Tucson, but frankly, you don’t miss them, because this gearbox is very intuitive.
It's also because, for all its power, it’s not a high-strung or rev-happy powertrain, and instead, prefers to be driven in a relaxed fashion; just as well for a big family SUV. Should you want to suddenly pass three cars on a highway though, there’s ample torque, and a quick downshift easily accessed with a quick tap on the accelerator. There are drive modes – Eco, Normal, Sport and Smart (adaptive) – but apart from a slight spike in revs using Sport, we didn’t notice too stark a difference amongst them in either powertrain.
The petrol powertrain is less convincing, and while it feels quite strong in the Alcazar, in the larger, heavier Tucson, it can feel overwhelmed at times, especially out on the highway. Its 156hp and 192Nm sound sufficient, but what this old-school naturally aspirated engine is missing is that strong mid-range slug of torque that you will find in its petrol rivals, all of which use turbochargers.
Still, it manages well enough at low speeds and in city confines, but a bigger irritant here is the 6-speed auto gearbox, which isn’t as quick or clever as the diesel’s 8-speed unit. There are often delays before a downshift or an upshift, leaving you either with an awkward pause before getting a move on, or at higher revs even though you haven’t flattened your foot. The latter situation also results in an unpleasant roar from the otherwise quiet petrol engine as it nears the upper end of the tachometer. All things considered, the Tucson’s petrol powertrain does its best work when driven in an unhurried manner.
Ride comfort was a strength of the previous Tucson, and that continues here. Riding on big, chunky 235/60 R18 wheels and tyres, the SUV has a confident stance, and is well geared to soak up the sharp edges of potholes or craters. You should know right at the outset that the petrol Tucson is set up noticeably softer than the diesel, and, as a result, it takes on lower-speed road imperfections just that little bit better, but is also prone to more body movement and roll.
Overall, irrespective of which version you choose, this is a largely softly set-up SUV, and that’s just as well for its intended role. It’s great around town, where it rides authoritatively over potholes and steep speed breakers, with little intrusion into the cabin. The suspension works silently too, with no more than a distant ‘thunk’ from the chunky tyres if you make contact a bit too hard. Like all Hyundais, the steering is nice and light, making for excellent urban manoeuvrability.
Out on the highway, the steering weighs up surprisingly well, allowing the Tucson to hold three-digit speeds with confidence. Out here, the suspension, particularly in the diesel, keeps things composed, which, in conjunction with the steering and the refined powertrain, makes this a great highway cruiser. As you might have guessed by now, the Tucson is not a sporty handling SUV. The steering isn’t all that sharp or quick, and there’s lots of body roll in the corners, so it’s best not to try and push it to its absolute limit.
With all the advancements the Tucson has made, its price has advanced considerably too. The starting price of Rs 27.70 lakh (ex-showroom) is quite attractive, but you’re looking at Rs 34.39 lakh for the top-spec diesel with AWD, which is more than its key rivals – the Jeep Compass, Volkswagen Tiguan and Citroen C5 Aircross – in their top-spec guises. This sort of makes sense, as the Alcazar – a very premium SUV in its own right – is knocking at the bottom end of this price range, and, because the Tucson packs in so very much.
Even beyond the clever tech like ADAS and all the other features, what you have is a fundamentally well-sorted premium executive SUV that’s got its basics of space, comfort and strong powertrains just right. Will the dramatic looks work in its favour? Well, this Tucson was the bestselling Hyundai globally in 2021, so surely the designers are on to something. More importantly, will it find more popularity in India than its predecessors, allowing Hyundai to move confidently into seriously premium territory? We’ll have to wait and see, but the Tucson is an SUV that ticks just about every box in its quest to be Hyundai’s flagship, and that sounds like a formula for success.
Also see:


The AMT gearbox-equipped Tiago iCNG is an industry first. We find out how good it is.
Tatahas really been moving the CNG game forward. It started off bucking the trend with what it called premiumisation of CNG by offering top-end variants with CNG power. Then last year theAltrozCNG introduced Tata’s innovative twin-cylinder technology, which has two tanks under the boot floor instead of one large cylinder in the boot, thus liberating the entire boot. And now, Tata has pushed the CNG case further still with the introduction of theTiago, Tiago NRG andTigorCNG automatic; an industry first powertrain combination.
Powering the Tiago CNG auto is the familiar 1.2-litre, three-cylinder, naturally aspirated engine that also does duty in the Tigor and Altroz. When run on petrol, this motor puts out 86hp and 113Nm whereas on CNG, it produces 73hp and 95Nm. This has been paired to the 5-speed automated manual transmission (AMT), like on the petrol-powered version.
Crank the engine using the flip-type key and it starts directly in CNG mode, which helps conserve that little bit of petrol at startup. On the move, this engine doesn’t feel refined and it isn’t peppy either but it is quite linear in its power delivery, save for a dip in the midrange. So it won’t wow you with its performance, but for someone who is just going to use it to commute in jam-packed city traffic, it is more than adequate.
Switch to petrol mode and you’ll realise that at a leisurely pace, the difference between CNG and petrol is not a lot. Responses, both off the line and at part-throttle, are decent and it’ll easily keep up with the flow of traffic in either mode. However, you will feel a lack of urgency in CNG mode when driving in a more enthusiastic manner.
Performance is adequate for commuting in traffic.
The gearbox has that typical AMT head-nod when shifting, but it’s eager to downshift and keep the engine in the meat of the powerband, which is good. What also helps is that you have manual control over the gears, via the tiptronic function on the gear lever.
Tata’s patented twin-cylinder set up was introduced to the Tiago and Tigor line-up last year itself and this automatic benefits from that set up too. With the two 30-litre tanks under the boot floor, 107 litres of cargo space is liberated. While that might not sound like much, it is good enough for a few soft bags and it’s still better than not having any space at all. And Tata hasn’t forgotten about the spare tyre either. It’s mounted underneath the car and can be lowered by loosening a bolt in the boot floor.
The Tiago also comes with certain CNG-specific safety features. There’s a fire extinguisher under the front passenger seat, the car won’t start when the fuel filler flap is open and it’ll also cut-off CNG supply and release the gas into the atmosphere if it detects a leak in the system. Tata also recommends that you drive 10km in petrol for every 300km in CNG to ensure the proper working of the petrol fuel system.
Suspension has been retuned to compensate for the extra 110kg.
The Tiago CNG gets a retuned suspension setup with a stiffer spring rate and higher damping force at the rear to compensate for the additional 110kg this car hauls. Despite that though, ride and handling remains a strong point. The ride feels composed and stable at high speeds and it deals with the rough stuff well too. The steering also strikes a good balance between being light and feelsome too and body control around bends is tidy.
We did a brief fuel efficiency check for the Tiago CNG AMT during the course of the shoot and we managed to get 24.28km/kg. That’s not too far off the manufacturer’s claimed 28.06km/kg. However, it’s important to note that this test was not conducted to Autocar India’s elaborate road test standards and a majority of the test was done on open roads with higher average speeds. Hence, the real-world figure might be slightly lower still.
Regardless, the Tiago CNG AMT’s efficiency comes across as impressive. For reference, the current cost of CNG in Mumbai is Rs 76 per kg while petrol costs around Rs 106 per litre. The cost per km for CNG comes to Rs 3.16, which is a third of the cost for petrol, which would be around Rs 9 per km. And not only is CNG cheaper to run than petrol, it’s more eco-friendly too thanks to lower emissions. However, one thing you’ll still need to contend with are the long queues at the CNG filling station.
Like it did with the Altroz, Tata is offering the Tiago CNG AMT in multiple trims, including the near top-spec XZ+. This means it barely loses out on any features in comparison to its petrol counterpart (petrol Tiago XZ (O) gets alloys). It packs in a 7-inch touchscreen, Android Auto and Apple CarPlay compatibility, a Harman audio system, auto climate control, auto wipers, electrically adjustable and foldable wing mirrors, a rear wiper/washer, a rear parking camera, TPMS and more. Standard safety kit includes dual airbags, ABS with EBD, corner stability control, ISOFIX mounts and rear parking sensors.
There’s not much to report in terms of interior changes in comparison to the petrol auto, save for the CNG button in the centre console, the two fuel gauges in the instrument cluster and the revised Tata logo on the steering. The Tiago has a spacious cabin and fit/finish is acceptable for the price. The body-coloured surrounds on the outer AC vents do a good job of sprucing up this black and grey dual-tone cabin theme.
Exterior changes are also limited to the badges – there’s an iCNG badge on the boot, a ‘50 lakh cars’ milestone badge on the rear doors and the revised Tata logo at the back. The Tiago CNG AMT is being offered in four colours – Tornado Blue (which you see here), Flame Red, Daytona Grey and Opal White.
Prices for the Tata Tiago CNG AMT start at Rs 7.90 lakh for the entry-level XT variant and go up to Rs 8.90 lakh (ex-showroom) for the range-topping XZ+ dual tone. This marks an increase of about Rs 55,000 over the Tiago CNG manual. In comparison, the highest spec Hyundai i10 Nios CNG costs Rs 8.23 lakh while the Maruti Celerio CNG costs Rs 6.74 lakh (both ex-showroom, Delhi). However, it’s worth noting that neither offer CNG in their top trims or with an automatic gearbox.
Given the convenience the auto gearbox offers combined with the lower running costs of the CNG and the fact that you don’t have to miss out on features too, the Tiago CNG automatic should definitely be on your radar for your next urban roundabout.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Comprehensive update makes it a far more complete package, and you’d be happy to spend big money on it.
You really have to hand it to Tata Motors for constantly refreshing the Harrier since its launch in 2019. The model got a power upgrade, an automatic transmission and the all-important addition of a panoramic sunroof just a year after launch. Then there have been a couple of special editions, with each one debuting a feature or two that make it to the standard model in due course. In fact, just a couple of months ago came the Harrier Red Dark Edition with ADAS.
What we have here, however, is the most comprehensive update to the Harrier yet. It's new on the outside, it gets a redone interior, there's a whole lot more tech and there are some key mechanical changes as well. Should you be interested? In a word, yes.
Let’s talk styling first. Like a typical facelift, changes here are restricted to soft parts like the lights and bumpers, but the combined effect of all the new elements is an edgier and even more striking looking Harrier.
Taking centre stage up front is a larger grille that gets the requisite dose of flash with metal-like embellishments. The familiar, slim Daytime Running Lamps on top have been pinched further and now come connected by a light bar. This new arrangement has allowed the inclusion of a cool welcome animation, which is a big feel-good feature in its own right. Talking lights, the main headlights are now LED units and come vertically oriented amidst more prominent angular cutouts on the bumper. An aero-enhancing air passage from the bumper to the wheel wells has also been included. Lower down, there’s a larger surround for the air dam and a wider, chunkier scuff plate as well.
Changes in profile are limited, and it’s the new design for the wheels that’ll be your biggest giveaway of this being the updated Harrier. Notably, the wheels are now a size larger. 17 inches is the base size now, mid- and top-spec variants ride on 18 inchers, while the Dark Edition versions get 19 inchers! This aside, there’s bold Harrier lettering on the doors and a badge on the C pillar to commemorate Tata Motors’ journey to 50 lakh sales.
Styling at the back has been freshened up with reprofiled tail-lamps and the incorporation of a full-width light bar. The bumper has also been given a makeover with new vertically oriented elements. However, if you look closely, fit and finish isn’t perfect, there are still some ill-fitting bits like the misaligned rubber door seals.
Worth bringing in is that the Harrier will be offered in four trims – personas as Tata Motors calls them – that are identifiable on the outside by their wheels, detailing and exterior colours. The version featured here is the top-spec Fearless. And, you know what? Its Sunlit Yellow paint shade works.
Just as with the exterior, the Harrier’s interior also sees some big changes. There's a new, nice-to-hold steering wheel with a gloss black boss and an illuminated Tata logo; the dashboard has been refreshed with slimmer AC vents; and adding distinction are the new persona-based interior colour themes. Our Harrier Fearless+ in Sunlit Yellow sported a yellow panel on the dash as well as yellow contrast stitching and grab handles. It's loud and won't be to everyone's taste, but other exterior colours get more sober interior tones. My pick is the brown on black theme for the Adventure persona Harrier.
But more than the new colours, it's the new tech that does its bit to uplift the look of things inside. There's a new digital driver's display that has neat graphics and is easy to use. At 10.25 inches, it's large too, but some of the effect is lost because it is set quite far back in the deep instruments binnacle. The screen's ability to display a connected phone's map and that too in full screen is a huge plus though.
Perhaps the most significant tech update on the new Harrier is the new 12.3-inch touchscreen that feels a few generations superior to the older 8.8-inch unit. The latest unit is slick, it's responsive, it's vibrant and packs in a whole lot of features as well. There's wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a superb 360-deg camera which gives you a 3D image of the vehicle in its surroundings, and the screen is also your display for the onboard air purifier and JBL sound modes. There are 13 sound modes and they are nicely tuned to get the most out of the audio system. In all, the five-speaker (including a new one behind the dash), four-tweeter and subwoofer setup delivers a rich, deep and satisfying sound.
Also part of the package is ambient lighting on the dash and around the sunroof. Interestingly, while the hues can be changed via the touchscreen, you don't get a full spectrum of colours to choose from and the palette depends on the persona you've opted for.
The centre console for the climate control system is also redone and now sits in a gloss black panel. Save for temperature settings for the new dual-zone climate control that can be adjusted via toggles, all other functions are touch operated.
These controls stay hidden from view when the car is off and only light up when powering on. The arrangement looks cool but isn't perfect in execution. The touch slider for the blower control is fiddly to use and will need you to take your eyes off the road to get it right. Using voice commands is a workaround, provided you are patient enough to have a conversation with your car. The Harrier understands voice commands in six languages and the option to control the panoramic sunroof by voice is no less than a party trick.
Of the other things, the Harrier gets a new knurled rotary selector ahead of the gear lever for the Terrain modes. As premium as the dial with its inset display looks, it also reveals an ergonomic oversight – your hand will foul with the gear lever when using the dial. The base of the centre console in its entirety could do with a rethink because you are forced to contend with a wireless phone charger that's awkward to access and USB charging slots that aren't easy to plug into.
On the subject of ergonomics, despite Tata Motors repositioning the pedals to address the issue of the driver's left knee making contact with the dash, the problem persists. Also on my wish list would be a roomier footwell – there's no space to rest your clutch foot on the manual Harrier.
As before, the Harrier's front seats are nice and large, and the high seating gives a really commanding driving position. From behind the wheel, you get the feel of being in a big SUV and many will like the Harrier for just that. The driver's seat gets six-way power adjust and memory, the front passenger seat gets powered adjust too, and both front seats are ventilated.
Perceived quality and fit-finish have taken a jump up with the update. All your typical contact points like the steering, the gear lever and door handles feel really nice to touch but if you do poke around you will find some scratchy plastics too. The bigger concern surrounds the extensive use of gloss black materials. What we've seen in other cars, at least, is that this surface is prone to scratches and also attracts a lot of smudges, and this may take quite a bit of extra care to keep clean.
As mentioned, a more convenient phone storage bay would be nice but this aside, the Harrier does well on space for small items. There are bottle holders on the doors, a large glovebox with useful compartments, cupholders at the centre console as well as a cooled box between the seats that also features USB A and C ports.
Not all that much has changed at the back of the updated Harrier, but it does get some new additions. For instance, the rear windows now get sunshades, which come really handy on a hot day. Also different are the airline-style rear headrests that can be wrapped around your head to prevent excessive side to side movement.
As before, the highlight at the rear is space. Six footers will be at ease and there's also enough room for three adults to sit in comfort. What's disappointing is that there's no headrest for a middle passenger, though a three-point seatbelt has been included now.
A dedicated blower control for the rear section would have been a nice addition but cooling is good. The rear vents mounted on the B-pillars do a good job of directing cool air to your face. All said, you'll be comfortable for long hours on the back seat of a Harrier and there are enough provisions for your devices and odds and ends on a long journey. Storage spaces include two cup holders on the centre armrest, there's a bay for your phone and what's also handy is the shelf-like storage on the doors.
When it's time to load luggage, you'll welcome the addition of a powered and gesture-controlled tailgate. The boot can accommodate big suitcases with ease and a marginally lower floor has actually resulted in space increasing by 20 litres to 445 litres. The rear seats can be folded down if you need more room too. As before, the spare is mounted under the body and is a 16-inch steel rim.
That’s that for the changed on the outside and inside. But what’s the updated Harrier like to drive? The switch from a hydraulic to an electric power steering, move to larger wheels, suspension tweaks, inclusion of rear disc brakes and a BS6.2 engine promise much.
Of these changes, it's the improved steering that makes the biggest difference to the Harrier's driving experience. You feel the benefits of the new arrangement almost immediately with far less steering effort required at parking speeds and during U-turns. And the benefits of the new steering setup extend to high speed environments as well. That inconsistent steering feel on the old Harrier (slack at centre followed by a sharp response with just a few degrees of lock) has been done away with, and you get a more connected driving experience, though there is still a fair bit of play around the straight-ahead position.
Handling on the whole feels more sorted. Sport driving mode adds a bit more weight to the steering, which is nice when you're driving faster. I'm also happy to report that steering kickback is no longer a problem on the Harrier.
Has the move to larger rims corrupted the Harrier's ride? Actually, no. In fact, the updated Harrier feels pretty much the same on this front. On smaller surface imperfections, the Harrier still feels a bit jittery and a touch firm even. When the potholes become larger, the Harrier shines and takes the bumps like a champ. The ride also gets better the faster you go; it feels sure-footed at higher speeds, drives like the heavy car that it is, and it all comes together to give you great confidence.
Higher-spec versions of the Harrier now make the move to rear disc brakes. Braking performance with all four discs is good, but the feel from the pedal is a bit mushy. Under hard braking, there is a lot of pitch and there's no escaping the Harrier's sheer heft.
First things first, the updated Harrier doesn't get a petrol engine option as was widely expected. Tata's upcoming 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine is a good year or so away from joining the Harrier line-up. The Fiat-sourced diesel engine remains the sole engine on offer, but it is now BS6.2 compatible.
From behind the wheel, the 170hp, 350Nm, 2-litre diesel engine doesn't feel any different to the earlier versions. And that's because its characteristics remain the same: it's got a strong mid-range, a wide powerband and generally feels like a powerful engine. On the flip side, refinement levels are still far from class best standards, and this engine groans and moans at low speeds and booms when you extend it.
Drive modes, namely Eco, City and Sport, are part of the package, and each mode has its own  profile, with the throttle most responsive in Sport and most relaxed in Eco. There are Normal, Wet and Rough terrain modes too that tweak ESC characteristics for different conditions, but the front-wheel drive Harrier is no off-roader. However, it’ll do light trails with ease and has all the ground clearance you’d need.
As before, gearbox options include a six-speed manual and a six-speed torque converter automatic. We sampled the updated Harrier with a manual gearbox and found a slightly improved shift, although gear changes still need a bit of an effort. The bigger issue is the clutch that's got a long travel and is tricky to modulate. Frankly, the manual is not the gearbox of choice if you're interested in a Harrier.
The Tata Harrier feels tough and has even received a 5-star rating in adult and child occupant protection by Global NCAP.
Irrespective of which gearbox or persona you choose, all Harriers get 6 airbags, ESC, traction control, 3 point seatbelts for all seats, Isofix child seat mounts, tyre pressure monitoring system and more as standard. Higher-spec versions add in hill descent control, a driver knee airbag and also get a camera- and radar-based Advanced Driver Assistance systems or ADAS.
The blind spot warning and blind view monitor (they relay a camera feed from the wing mirrors onto the centre screen) greatly enhance situational awareness, and features like cross traffic alert, auto high beam assist and traffic sign recognition are a boon in our conditions. The Harrier gets a lane departure warning too, and over the next few months, lane keep assist (that brings in steering intervention) will also be added. The feature will be rolled out to the initial batch of Harriers via a software update.
We didn't dare test the autonomous emergency braking system, but missed the option to adjust distance settings for the forward collision warning function. Tailing a car close didn’t give a warning prompt when we expected it to. Unfortunately, we couldn't experience adaptive cruise control, which is restricted to the automatics only. Just another reason to opt for the automatics, then.
The 2024 Harrier has goneon sale, with prices startingat Rs 15.49 lakh (introductory, ex-showroom, India) for the base Pure manual variant.
With the updates, Tata has addressed many of the Harrier's weaknesses. The new steering makes the SUV far easier to live with, it’s taken a huge leap forwards in tech and there’s a newfound wow factor to the interior. At the same time, the new styling builds on the original design to fantastic effect.
However, a petrol engine is missed, and punchy as the diesel is, it’s not as refined as it ought to be. Looking at the big picture though, the Harrier is now a far more complete package and a Tata you’d be happy to spend big money on. Expect to see a lot of them on our roads.
Also See:
Tata Harrier facelift video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
On paper these two EVs have a similar price and range, so we find out which one is the better pick.
The MG Comet is India’s most affordable electric hatchback in India, priced between Rs 7.98 lakh-9.98 lakh, available with a 17.3kWh battery. We’ve examined this radical two-door, four-seater EV and put it through our instrumented tests to find out how it performs in the real world. To bring in some perspective, we compare it with the similarly priced Tata Tiago EV.
Tata’s electric hatchback is available in a wider range with two variants – the MR version gets a 19.2kWh battery priced between Rs 8.69 lakh-9.29 lakh, and the LR version gets a 24kWh battery priced between Rs 10.24 lakh-11.54 lakh.
Spawned on a dedicated electric platform, the MG Comet features an unorthodox monovolume, cube-like silhouette that oozes with character, thanks to its quirky styling, chunks of chrome and stunning LED light bars (front and rear). It is India’s smallest (in length) passenger vehicle too. For reference, it is 795mm shorter in length, 172mm narrower in width and its wheelbase is 390mm shorter than the Tata Tiago EV; and being a tallboy, it is 104mm taller.
The Tiago EV with its conventional two-box design, which is otherwise a handsome looker, appears dated when parked beside the radical MG.
Futuristic, minimal and pleasant are adjectives that best describe the Comet’s interior. The white colour scheme and massive greenhouse area elevate its sense of spaciousness, and the twin screens lend it an upmarket feel. Truly impressive is the overall feel of the beautifully built cabin, with high-quality bits in most areas.
What comes as a revelation is the space on offer, especially keeping its tiny footprint in mind. Comfort though isn’t its strong suit – its front seats have limited adjustment and the seats aren’t supportive due to a short squab. The doors open wide and with the pull of a lever, the front seats fold and slide forward to ease access to the rear seat. Its rear bench is surprisingly spacious for two adults with ample knee and headroom, albeit the seat is low-set, so passengers are in a knees-up position, and even though its rear windows don’t open, the tall, aircraft-style windows brighten the ambience.
Storage areas are limited; there is neither a glovebox nor a dedicated place to stow your smartphone securely, and  its boot is tiny and can haul only a slim laptop bag, with the second row in place.
The Tiago EV’s interiors are solidly built and reek of an air of quality. However, like its exteriors, its cabin feels bland and dated compared to the MG, particularly due to its puny digital speedo and its 7-inch touchscreen. Its seats are comfier though, and rear seat passengers have the luxury of a dedicated set of doors too. Interestingly, knee room in the Tata feels similar to the Comet EV’s, and even though the seat is relatively wider – and the Tiago EV is technically a 5-seater – three adults abreast will be a tight squeeze.
The Tiago EV’s cabin is a lot more practical with better-designed storage areas, and at 240 litres, its boot is much more accommodating too. Neither car gets a spare tyre; instead they get a puncture repair kit as standard
The highlight of the MG Comet is its 10.25-inch twin-screen set up – one for the instrument cluster and the other for infotainment. The latter is packed with connected car tech as well as wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, however, it gets just two speakers, and sadly, it will leave you wanting for better sound quality. The Comet also features a stunning set of LED light bars in the front and at the rear. Appreciably, its LED headlamps are excellent with a fantastic throw and spread. What the Comet also gets over the Tiago EV is a hill-hold function.
Equipment checklistMG Comet PlushTata Tiago EV XZ+ Tech LuxLED headlampsYesNAAuto headlampsNAYesAlloysNANATouchscreen10.25-inch7-inchAndroid Auto/ Apple CarPlayWirelessWiredNumber of speakers28Leatherette seatsNAYesCruise controlNAYesDrive modesYesYesElectric folding mirrorsNAYesRear wiper and washerNAYesAuto climate controlNAYesHill-hold assistYesNAESPNANA
Kit that the Comet EV misses out on are auto headlamps, automatic climate control, leatherette upholstery, cruise control, rear wiper and washer, electric folding mirrors as well as an 8-speaker Harman system with sound quality eons ahead of the MG. The Tiago EV also supports DC fast charging, which the MG misses. So even though the Tata costs Rs 1.56 lakh more, the additional kit easily justifies the premium.
With its tinier footprint, upright driving position, better frontal visibility and its ability to turn on a coin thanks to a turning radius of just 4.2m, the MG Comet EV does a convincing job as an urban runabout. It will merrily chug along with the flow of traffic, and there are three driving modes – Eco, Normal and Sports, with performance in Eco being dull, and Normal and Sports being relatively livelier. Its motor is quite vocal and at 42hp/110Nm, its specs are modest at best. Expectedly, performance within city confines feels just about adequate. But demand anything more and you will be left wanting for more zing. On the other hand, the Tata’s 74hp motor feels a lot more responsive and performance feels zippier and more effortless in comparison.
The Tiago EV gets two drive modes – City where max torque is limited to 75 percent, and Sport, which unlocks the motor’s full potential. Interestingly, the Tiago EV’s acceleration from 0-60kph in City mode is identical to the Comet’s Sports mode, but from thereon, the Tiago EV shoots into the lead to 100kph, by over 6 seconds. Switch to Sport mode in the Tiago EV, and it outdrags the Comet from 0-60kph and 0-100kph by nearly 2 and 9 seconds, respectively. The Tata also hits a higher top speed of 120kph, whereas the Comet EV’s is 101kph.
Both cars have three levels of regenerative braking, and while neither can be driven with one-pedal only, as these don’t come to a halt using regen, the Tiago EV gives users the option to turn regen off and let the car roll freely.
Besides livelier performance, the Tiago EV drives in a sportier manner with tighter body control and sharper dynamics. Body movements are few, its relatively larger tyres flatten imperfect road surfaces better, and you don’t feel body roll like the way you would in the MG Comet. On account of its small tyres and limited travel suspension, the Comet’s ride is relatively busier, it crashes over sharp edges, and you will have to contend with prominent body roll even while changing lanes.
In our instrumented range tests conducted in their most economical setting, the lightweight MG Comet EV (817kg) delivered an efficiency of 11.17km/kWh, much higher than the heavier (1,150kg) Tiago EV’s 7.77km/kWh. As a result, the MG’s 17.3kWh battery can be driven 193km on a full charge, while the Tata’s 24kWh can manage 187km. We must mention that range and efficiency numbers are bound to drop in other modes.
Also noteworthy is that the maximum speed an MG Comet can be charged is 3.3kW, so its battery will take a little over 3 hours to charge from 20-80 percent on an AC fast-charger, and a little over 4.5 hours using a 15A slow charger. In comparison, not only is the Tata Tiago EV far more practical as it supports DC fast charging, its battery will charge from 20-80 percent in an hour at a public fast charger, making it more suitable for occasional long, inter-city drives.
The charming, characterful MG Comet is a breath of fresh air in a market flooded with conventional offerings. Being a two-door, micro-car gives it loads of appeal. What’s more, its interiors are beautifully built, its cabin is surprisingly spacious for its size, and its range of 193km is rather good.
But for similar money, the Tata Tiago EV is fundamentally a better car – it drives nicer, is better equipped and is much more practical, not only because it has rear doors but also because it has a larger, more usable boot, and the fact that it supports DC fast charging.
All factors considered, our vote goes to the Tata Tiago EV, which has a wider appeal for its well-roundedness and practicality, however, as a secondary urban runabout, the quirky and cool Comet is worth your consideration.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
tata-tigor
Comprehensive update makes it a far more complete package, and you’d be happy to spend big money on it.
You really have to hand it to Tata Motors for constantly refreshing the Harrier since its launch in 2019. The model got a power upgrade, an automatic transmission and the all-important addition of a panoramic sunroof just a year after launch. Then there have been a couple of special editions, with each one debuting a feature or two that make it to the standard model in due course. In fact, just a couple of months ago came the Harrier Red Dark Edition with ADAS.
What we have here, however, is the most comprehensive update to the Harrier yet. It's new on the outside, it gets a redone interior, there's a whole lot more tech and there are some key mechanical changes as well. Should you be interested? In a word, yes.
Let’s talk styling first. Like a typical facelift, changes here are restricted to soft parts like the lights and bumpers, but the combined effect of all the new elements is an edgier and even more striking looking Harrier.
Taking centre stage up front is a larger grille that gets the requisite dose of flash with metal-like embellishments. The familiar, slim Daytime Running Lamps on top have been pinched further and now come connected by a light bar. This new arrangement has allowed the inclusion of a cool welcome animation, which is a big feel-good feature in its own right. Talking lights, the main headlights are now LED units and come vertically oriented amidst more prominent angular cutouts on the bumper. An aero-enhancing air passage from the bumper to the wheel wells has also been included. Lower down, there’s a larger surround for the air dam and a wider, chunkier scuff plate as well.
Changes in profile are limited, and it’s the new design for the wheels that’ll be your biggest giveaway of this being the updated Harrier. Notably, the wheels are now a size larger. 17 inches is the base size now, mid- and top-spec variants ride on 18 inchers, while the Dark Edition versions get 19 inchers! This aside, there’s bold Harrier lettering on the doors and a badge on the C pillar to commemorate Tata Motors’ journey to 50 lakh sales.
Styling at the back has been freshened up with reprofiled tail-lamps and the incorporation of a full-width light bar. The bumper has also been given a makeover with new vertically oriented elements. However, if you look closely, fit and finish isn’t perfect, there are still some ill-fitting bits like the misaligned rubber door seals.
Worth bringing in is that the Harrier will be offered in four trims – personas as Tata Motors calls them – that are identifiable on the outside by their wheels, detailing and exterior colours. The version featured here is the top-spec Fearless. And, you know what? Its Sunlit Yellow paint shade works.
Just as with the exterior, the Harrier’s interior also sees some big changes. There's a new, nice-to-hold steering wheel with a gloss black boss and an illuminated Tata logo; the dashboard has been refreshed with slimmer AC vents; and adding distinction are the new persona-based interior colour themes. Our Harrier Fearless+ in Sunlit Yellow sported a yellow panel on the dash as well as yellow contrast stitching and grab handles. It's loud and won't be to everyone's taste, but other exterior colours get more sober interior tones. My pick is the brown on black theme for the Adventure persona Harrier.
But more than the new colours, it's the new tech that does its bit to uplift the look of things inside. There's a new digital driver's display that has neat graphics and is easy to use. At 10.25 inches, it's large too, but some of the effect is lost because it is set quite far back in the deep instruments binnacle. The screen's ability to display a connected phone's map and that too in full screen is a huge plus though.
Perhaps the most significant tech update on the new Harrier is the new 12.3-inch touchscreen that feels a few generations superior to the older 8.8-inch unit. The latest unit is slick, it's responsive, it's vibrant and packs in a whole lot of features as well. There's wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a superb 360-deg camera which gives you a 3D image of the vehicle in its surroundings, and the screen is also your display for the onboard air purifier and JBL sound modes. There are 13 sound modes and they are nicely tuned to get the most out of the audio system. In all, the five-speaker (including a new one behind the dash), four-tweeter and subwoofer setup delivers a rich, deep and satisfying sound.
Also part of the package is ambient lighting on the dash and around the sunroof. Interestingly, while the hues can be changed via the touchscreen, you don't get a full spectrum of colours to choose from and the palette depends on the persona you've opted for.
The centre console for the climate control system is also redone and now sits in a gloss black panel. Save for temperature settings for the new dual-zone climate control that can be adjusted via toggles, all other functions are touch operated.
These controls stay hidden from view when the car is off and only light up when powering on. The arrangement looks cool but isn't perfect in execution. The touch slider for the blower control is fiddly to use and will need you to take your eyes off the road to get it right. Using voice commands is a workaround, provided you are patient enough to have a conversation with your car. The Harrier understands voice commands in six languages and the option to control the panoramic sunroof by voice is no less than a party trick.
Of the other things, the Harrier gets a new knurled rotary selector ahead of the gear lever for the Terrain modes. As premium as the dial with its inset display looks, it also reveals an ergonomic oversight – your hand will foul with the gear lever when using the dial. The base of the centre console in its entirety could do with a rethink because you are forced to contend with a wireless phone charger that's awkward to access and USB charging slots that aren't easy to plug into.
On the subject of ergonomics, despite Tata Motors repositioning the pedals to address the issue of the driver's left knee making contact with the dash, the problem persists. Also on my wish list would be a roomier footwell – there's no space to rest your clutch foot on the manual Harrier.
As before, the Harrier's front seats are nice and large, and the high seating gives a really commanding driving position. From behind the wheel, you get the feel of being in a big SUV and many will like the Harrier for just that. The driver's seat gets six-way power adjust and memory, the front passenger seat gets powered adjust too, and both front seats are ventilated.
Perceived quality and fit-finish have taken a jump up with the update. All your typical contact points like the steering, the gear lever and door handles feel really nice to touch but if you do poke around you will find some scratchy plastics too. The bigger concern surrounds the extensive use of gloss black materials. What we've seen in other cars, at least, is that this surface is prone to scratches and also attracts a lot of smudges, and this may take quite a bit of extra care to keep clean.
As mentioned, a more convenient phone storage bay would be nice but this aside, the Harrier does well on space for small items. There are bottle holders on the doors, a large glovebox with useful compartments, cupholders at the centre console as well as a cooled box between the seats that also features USB A and C ports.
Not all that much has changed at the back of the updated Harrier, but it does get some new additions. For instance, the rear windows now get sunshades, which come really handy on a hot day. Also different are the airline-style rear headrests that can be wrapped around your head to prevent excessive side to side movement.
As before, the highlight at the rear is space. Six footers will be at ease and there's also enough room for three adults to sit in comfort. What's disappointing is that there's no headrest for a middle passenger, though a three-point seatbelt has been included now.
A dedicated blower control for the rear section would have been a nice addition but cooling is good. The rear vents mounted on the B-pillars do a good job of directing cool air to your face. All said, you'll be comfortable for long hours on the back seat of a Harrier and there are enough provisions for your devices and odds and ends on a long journey. Storage spaces include two cup holders on the centre armrest, there's a bay for your phone and what's also handy is the shelf-like storage on the doors.
When it's time to load luggage, you'll welcome the addition of a powered and gesture-controlled tailgate. The boot can accommodate big suitcases with ease and a marginally lower floor has actually resulted in space increasing by 20 litres to 445 litres. The rear seats can be folded down if you need more room too. As before, the spare is mounted under the body and is a 16-inch steel rim.
That’s that for the changed on the outside and inside. But what’s the updated Harrier like to drive? The switch from a hydraulic to an electric power steering, move to larger wheels, suspension tweaks, inclusion of rear disc brakes and a BS6.2 engine promise much.
Of these changes, it's the improved steering that makes the biggest difference to the Harrier's driving experience. You feel the benefits of the new arrangement almost immediately with far less steering effort required at parking speeds and during U-turns. And the benefits of the new steering setup extend to high speed environments as well. That inconsistent steering feel on the old Harrier (slack at centre followed by a sharp response with just a few degrees of lock) has been done away with, and you get a more connected driving experience, though there is still a fair bit of play around the straight-ahead position.
Handling on the whole feels more sorted. Sport driving mode adds a bit more weight to the steering, which is nice when you're driving faster. I'm also happy to report that steering kickback is no longer a problem on the Harrier.
Has the move to larger rims corrupted the Harrier's ride? Actually, no. In fact, the updated Harrier feels pretty much the same on this front. On smaller surface imperfections, the Harrier still feels a bit jittery and a touch firm even. When the potholes become larger, the Harrier shines and takes the bumps like a champ. The ride also gets better the faster you go; it feels sure-footed at higher speeds, drives like the heavy car that it is, and it all comes together to give you great confidence.
Higher-spec versions of the Harrier now make the move to rear disc brakes. Braking performance with all four discs is good, but the feel from the pedal is a bit mushy. Under hard braking, there is a lot of pitch and there's no escaping the Harrier's sheer heft.
First things first, the updated Harrier doesn't get a petrol engine option as was widely expected. Tata's upcoming 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine is a good year or so away from joining the Harrier line-up. The Fiat-sourced diesel engine remains the sole engine on offer, but it is now BS6.2 compatible.
From behind the wheel, the 170hp, 350Nm, 2-litre diesel engine doesn't feel any different to the earlier versions. And that's because its characteristics remain the same: it's got a strong mid-range, a wide powerband and generally feels like a powerful engine. On the flip side, refinement levels are still far from class best standards, and this engine groans and moans at low speeds and booms when you extend it.
Drive modes, namely Eco, City and Sport, are part of the package, and each mode has its own  profile, with the throttle most responsive in Sport and most relaxed in Eco. There are Normal, Wet and Rough terrain modes too that tweak ESC characteristics for different conditions, but the front-wheel drive Harrier is no off-roader. However, it’ll do light trails with ease and has all the ground clearance you’d need.
As before, gearbox options include a six-speed manual and a six-speed torque converter automatic. We sampled the updated Harrier with a manual gearbox and found a slightly improved shift, although gear changes still need a bit of an effort. The bigger issue is the clutch that's got a long travel and is tricky to modulate. Frankly, the manual is not the gearbox of choice if you're interested in a Harrier.
The Tata Harrier feels tough and has even received a 5-star rating in adult and child occupant protection by Global NCAP.
Irrespective of which gearbox or persona you choose, all Harriers get 6 airbags, ESC, traction control, 3 point seatbelts for all seats, Isofix child seat mounts, tyre pressure monitoring system and more as standard. Higher-spec versions add in hill descent control, a driver knee airbag and also get a camera- and radar-based Advanced Driver Assistance systems or ADAS.
The blind spot warning and blind view monitor (they relay a camera feed from the wing mirrors onto the centre screen) greatly enhance situational awareness, and features like cross traffic alert, auto high beam assist and traffic sign recognition are a boon in our conditions. The Harrier gets a lane departure warning too, and over the next few months, lane keep assist (that brings in steering intervention) will also be added. The feature will be rolled out to the initial batch of Harriers via a software update.
We didn't dare test the autonomous emergency braking system, but missed the option to adjust distance settings for the forward collision warning function. Tailing a car close didn’t give a warning prompt when we expected it to. Unfortunately, we couldn't experience adaptive cruise control, which is restricted to the automatics only. Just another reason to opt for the automatics, then.
The 2024 Harrier has goneon sale, with prices startingat Rs 15.49 lakh (introductory, ex-showroom, India) for the base Pure manual variant.
With the updates, Tata has addressed many of the Harrier's weaknesses. The new steering makes the SUV far easier to live with, it’s taken a huge leap forwards in tech and there’s a newfound wow factor to the interior. At the same time, the new styling builds on the original design to fantastic effect.
However, a petrol engine is missed, and punchy as the diesel is, it’s not as refined as it ought to be. Looking at the big picture though, the Harrier is now a far more complete package and a Tata you’d be happy to spend big money on. Expect to see a lot of them on our roads.
Also See:
Tata Harrier facelift video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
This all-new iCNG variant sits between the petrol and electric Tigor in terms of price. We find out how economical it is to run.
The concept of running internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles on compressed natural gas (CNG) has been around for decades, and by opting for this set-up, users benefit from huge savings in terms of running costs, compared to traditional fuels. In the current scenario, skyrocketing fuel prices have triggered demand for alternate energy vehicles, including electrics. And it is for this reason that factory-fitted CNG vehicles have gained traction – they’re cheaper to run than petrol and the initial price premium over corresponding petrol vehicles are easier to digest (than EVs). Another reason for the rising popularity of CNG vehicles is the fact that diesels are on the brink of extinction, especially in the budget segments.
In its pursuit to increase market share, Tata Motors has once again set foot into the CNG space with offerings like the Tiago hatchback and Tigor compact sedan. And the carmaker will expand its CNG portfolio further in the coming months.
The focus of this review is its compact sedan, the Tigor iCNG, which, as its name suggests, runs on both petrol and CNG. Priced between Rs 7.85 lakh-8.57 lakh, the CNG commands a premium of Rs 90,000 over corresponding petrol-manual variants. In addition to the huge savings in running costs, the company also claims that owners won’t have to compromise on performance. We put it through our exhaustive tests to analyse this bi-fuel Tata in more detail.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Does this all-electric sedan have what it takes to replicate the Tata Nexon EV’s success?
After dominating the electric vehicle (EV) space in India with the Nexon EV, Tata has launched its second all-electric offering, the Tigor EV, to continue its rule. Not to be confused with the all-electric version of this compact sedan (now rebranded as the Xpress-T) that continues to cater to the commercial vehicle (CV) segment, this 2021 Tigor EV is the passenger vehicle (PV) iteration which we’ll focus on.
The Tigor EV features a more sophisticated electrical architecture compared to its CV sibling. It gets a 350V electrical system and a 26kWh liquid-cooled battery pack, which is paired with a permanent magnet synchronous motor. Launched at an introductory price, ranging from Rs 11.99 lakh to Rs 13.14 lakh (ex-showroom), the Tata Tigor EV has pipped the Nexon EV (Rs 13.99 lakh-Rs 16.85 lakh) to become the most affordable electric car to go on sale. So, the question is, will the Tigor EV be as successful as the Nexon EV? We put it through our exhaustive tests to find the answer.
There’s little to talk about when it comes to EV-specific exterior and interior enhancements. On the outside, an enclosed gloss black panel mimics a front grille and features a neatly executed tri-arrow pattern, with the latter also marking its presence on the front air-dam. Other electric-specific changes include a light blue ‘humanity line’ that underlines the grille area and headlamps. These highlights also make their way around its fog lamps, on the wheel covers and on the rear bumper. This Tata proudly flaunts its green credentials with ‘EV’ badges scattered across its exteriors.
Carrying forward a similar theme inside are light blue accents on the dashboard, as well as a tri-arrow pattern on the fabric seats. The biggest change on the inside is the new rotary gear selector knob, similar to the Nexon EV’s. This selector is slow to respond, and the shift between D and R, in particular, demands your patience. There’s also a new digital speedometer to speak of, which appears a bit busy in terms of visual elements and displays only essentials like battery percent, range and odometer. The bar to its left shows the power consumption, while the one on the top-right displays charge, and the one on the bottom-right shows regeneration intensity. Its new 7.0-inch touchscreen is easy to operate and, in-line with the current trend, it gets connected features via a mobile app that include location-based services, remote control for the air-con and door locks, among 35 others.
Like in the standard car, the seats are wide and accommodating, although the cushioning is a bit firm and the front passenger is seated rather high in this sedan. There’s adequate legroom in the rear, but headroom for taller occupants is limited due to a sloping roofline, and the seat’s narrow width makes it ideal for two adults.
In this EV, the boot area has been reduced by 103 litres (compared to its petrol version) to 316 litres, as the spare wheel is placed vertically on the floor, which eats away into usable cargo space. The reason for this arrangement is the Tigor EV’s unique split battery setup, wherein one part of the battery rests in the fuel tank location, while the other is placed beneath the boot floor, in the spare wheel well.
The EV’s structure gets additional reinforcements in some places, comprising of higher strength materials than the petrol version. Even the rear end has been further strengthened to support the battery mounting, enhancing its rear crash safety in the process. As a result of the additional reinforcements and its twin-battery layout and motor, kerb weight has increased by nearly 200kg, tipping scales to 1,235kg.
Like in the case of the Nexon EV, the Tigor EV’s battery and motor conform to IP67 standards, which mean they have passed the ingress protection test of being submerged under one metre of water for 30 minutes. And to further boost buyer confidence, Tata is offering an eight-year or 1,60,000km warranty on the battery pack and motor, in addition to the three-year or 1,25,000km standard warranty. What’s also reassuring is that the battery pack has been certified with an AIS-048 rating – the most stringent safety test in India, which includes nail penetration up to cell level, a crush test, a fire test and more.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
tata-punch
The Punch makes the transition to electric power, with two electric motor options, fresh styling and lots of features at a compelling price.
Tata Motors is poised to further solidify its dominance in the Indian passenger EV market with the introduction of the all-new Punch EV that neatly slots in between the range-topping Nexon EV and the entry-level Tiago EV. The Punch EV is Tata’s fourth electric offering, but crucially, it’s got the potential to become India’s bestselling EV. Why? For one, it’s an SUV – the body style that everyone is in love with – it’s based on the wildly popular petrol-engine Punch, it's superbly specced, aggressively priced (Rs 10.99 lakh-15.49 lakh), and has absolutely no direct competition. On paper, the Punch EV seems a sure-shot winner, but is it as impressive on the road?
Tata Motors has applied the same Nexon electrification formula to the Punch, which is to take the ICE version, give it a new and distinctly EV face, and pack it with more features and tech. But there is one big difference: the Punch EV is the first Tata to be built on the company’s Acti.ev architecture, a comprehensive re-engineering of the original ICE platform for pure EV application. Unlike the Nexon EV’s ICE platform, which underwent smaller modifications in the interest of getting to market quickly, the Punch EV gets a far more comprehensive do-over. Tata Motors has reengineered the floor to make it flat and has given it a wider recess to accommodate the centrally mounted battery pack. While in many cases an underslung battery lowers ground clearance, with the electric Punch it is higher. Tata engineers have raised the floor (by 20mm), so ground clearance stands at speedbreaker-conquering 190mm – up 3mm from the ICE Punch.
Another big advantage of the new Acti.ev architecture is that the battery pack itself acts as a stressed member and contributes to the torsional stiffness of the chassis, which, in the case of the Punch EV, is 30 percent higher than the ICE model. A stiff and rigid chassis is always desirable because not only does it improve crashworthiness but it has also allowed for softer damper settings for improved ride comfort without compromising body control.
The spring rates are a little stiffer than the ICE Punch to compensate for the increase in weight, which is 320kg in the case of the long-range version that has a kerb weight of 1,340kg. The standard model with the smaller and lighter battery pack is around 100kg lighter. The brakes have also been marginally improved with heavier-duty calipers and discs at the rear (drums on the 82hp version), but like with all EVs, the regeneration modes greatly assist in the overall braking performance
The Punch EV comes with two battery sizes – the standard variant gets a 25kWh pack, whilst the long-range version gets 35kWh. Tata Motors claims a range of 315km and 421km for the standard and long-range versions, respectively. With Punch EV’s Acti.ev architecture optimised for efficient packaging, you would have expected a bigger battery pack but the limitation here is the ICE version’s short 2,445mm wheelbase, which has a direct bearing on battery size. Also, the Punch EV uses the same cylindrical LFP cells as in the Nexon EV; these aren’t very space efficient but they are a tried-and-tested form and chemistry, and locally sourced too, making the battery pack – singularly the most expensive component of an EV – quite cost-effective.
The Punch gets a single CCS2 charging port, which is the industry standard. The company claims that on a DC fast charger, the battery can be topped up at a maximum speed of 25kW taking it from 10 percent to 80 percent in 56 minutes; not very fast by modern EV standards. You also get a 3.3kW portable charger – good for charging wherever you find a 15A plug or a 7.2kW AC fast charger that can be installed in your home or wherever you like.
The regular petrol Punch was quite a looker and the Punch EV looks even better. Design changes mainly are confined to the nose with the grille blanked out and the flap for the charging port smack in the middle. The charging port can only be opened via the release button on the centre console, which isn’t as convenient as having it on the key fob as well. The LED light strip that runs across the bonnet is the new signature for all Tata EVs and looks quite distinctive as does the headlamp cluster housings that stick out from the lower sides of the front bumper. The deep chin has an air intake and a scuff plate completes what is a very prominent face. In fact, the nose is not too dissimilar from the Nexon EV, which uses similar design cues.
From the side, there’s no change and the sculpted flanks, high beltline and pillar-mounted rear door handle are all carried over. Tyre size, too, is the same as the petrol, the Punch EV rides on 16-inch wheels (15-inch ones for lower variants), which look a bit lost within the hefty wheel arches.
The rear is also heavily sculpted and the tail-lights with arrow-like elements is another design touch that distinguishes the Punch. And if a green registration plate is not enough to shout out its EV credentials, Tata Motors has the Punch EV name boldly lettered across the tailgate.
Taking centre stage in the cabin are two 10.2-inch screens, which are packed with features and tech. The central infotainment screen hosts the Arcade.ev suite of 17 apps, which includes Amazon, music, games, podcasts and OTT streaming. You also get wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, as well as wireless phone charging, of course.
The digital instrument cluster, too, is highly configurable and there’s no dearth of information, which includes info from your connected phone, navigation and also driving info like a histogram showing you the car's power flow. The only trouble here is some of the graphics like the power flow animation are way too small to see easily.
The top-end Empowered+ variant gets equipment you find only in cars a segment or two higher, like a crisp 360-degree camera, blindspot monitoring, leatherette seats, which are cooled, an electronic parking brake with auto hold, an air purifier, auto wipers and an auto-dimming rear view. There’s also a ‘Hey Tata’ voice assistant configured to take over 200 voice commands in six languages and the Alexa, Siri and Google assistants too.
In fact, the Punch EV is as well as equipped as the Nexon EV and only a few features are missing like V2V and V2L charging, and configurable ambient lighting.The layered dashboard looks solid and the switches and buttons have a nice heft to them but look closely and you’ll find lots of iffy bits. The plastic quality isn’t great and neither is the finish of the excessively used piano black finish, which is prone to attracting smudges, dust and eventually, scratches.
The touch-sensitive buttons on the all-black lower console are not well-defined and to operate some of them takes your eyes off the road. However, the biggest bugbear continues to be the rotary drive controller, which is infuriatingly slow to respond and sometimes doesn’t engage if you don’t have a firm foot on the brake pedal.
The Punch is acompactcompact SUV in the sense that it sits in a segment below the Nexon. Just 3,857mm long and 1,742mm wide, the cabin is expectedly snug but Tata Motors has done an outstanding job of making the seats very comfortable. The front buckets are generous even for 6-footers and the rear seat too is particularly well-shaped with terrific under-thigh support thanks to a generous squab and a high-seating position, which compensates for the raised floor. As a result, you don’t sit in that typical ‘knees-up’ position you experience in most EVs. The trade-off is reduced headroom due to the increased seat height, and this issue is exacerbated in the sunroof-equipped cars, which havelower roof liners. Legroom, too, is in short supply and, as a result, the rear seat is best only for short people.
The 366-litre boot is quite generous and deep enough to stack in two large bags, but there’s no spare tyre and whatever little storage space there is under the boot floor is used for the charging cable, puncture repair kit and tools. There is a small frunk, too, which should have ideally housed the charging cable but you can use it to store some additional small items.

Tata Motors euphoric rise in the Indian EV market has masked to a great extent its one big weakness – internal combustion engines. And though the Punch, which sells around 14,000 units a month, defies that assumption, there’s no getting away from the fact that the very ordinary and underpowered 1.2 three-cylinder naturally aspirated petrol is the weakest point of the package. But now with the Punch EV, that weakness is not just gone in one fell swoop but is replaced with what has turned out to be this little SUV’s biggest strength – 122hp of strong, smooth, silent and seamless electric power. It’s the same motor as the Nexon EV’s, whilst the standard variant with the 25kWh battery gets a less powerful 82hp motor.
The Punch EV gets off the line with ease and effortlessness that defines the electric breed. It gathers pace progressively and rapidly and you’re never left wanting for more power. You get three driving modes – Sport, City and Eco – each of which is mapped and calibrated to suit different driving styles and requirements. Sport mode, which shoves the Punch EV from 0-100kph in a claimed 9.5 seconds, is of course the most thrilling and the one to use when you want to have some fun. The Punch EV whisks you to some serious speeds without breaking a sweat or making a noise about it in true EV fashion. There are no jerks, no vibration and apart from a bit of road noise at high speeds, the cabin is pretty silent.
However, that instant response of maximum torque being unleashed from a standstill has been dialled down and that’s a shame because that neck-flexing thrust you get off the line every time you floor your right foot is what makes driving an EV addictive.
Tata Motors engineers say that have deliberately softened the response to make the power delivery more gradual, avoiding a sudden and potentially startling surge of power. While this may cater to the average driver's comfort, it does dilute the thrust that enthusiasts typically crave when accelerating in an electric vehicle. Despite having other modes suitable for everyday driving scenarios, the question arises: why compromise the intensity of Sport mode for a clique of enthusiasts who seek the maximum performance from their electric vehicles?
City mode, meanwhile, is perfect for ambling along in traffic and, quite frankly, the default mode owners will use for 90 percent of their time behind the wheel. Eco mode is not necessarily an emergency mode to give you vital extra kilometres of range when you’re low on charge. In fact, Eco too is quite useable in everyday traffic and it's only when you floor the pedal that you feel a distinct lack of grunt. We feel with the presence of three driving modes, Tata could have kept a more lively tune for Sport mode.
The four levels of regenerative braking are better defined in that sense which can be easily adjusted via the steering paddles. Level 0 has no regeneration and feels the most natural when you coast. Level 3 or maximum regeneration is pretty aggressive and gives 0.18g of deceleration, which in traffic is good for one-pedal driving but the in-built creep function means you will have to use the brakes to bring the car to a complete stop.
Ride comfort is an area where the Punch EV has nailed it. The softer dampers have made the ride more pliant and supple and the Punch EV soaks up the worst of roads with the authority of a much bigger SUV. At low speeds, sharp edges do thud through but that’s more a function of the 195/60 R 16 tyre sidewalls that take the impact. The higher profile 185/70 R 15 tyres on 15-inch rims fitted on the lower-spec cars should actually be more comfortable.
Straight-line stability again is very good and even through long, sweeping corners, the Punch EV feels nicely bolted to the tarmac. There is a fair bit of body roll when you push the Punch EV hard through tight corners, but thanks to the lowered centre of gravity the heavy battery pack affords, the sense of stability and connection with the road is maintained.
The steering is light, though not very communicative and lacks the fluency you find in other Tata cars, especially the Nexon. You get a bit of torque steer under hard acceleration and there’s an inconsistent feel around the straight-ahead position. The brakes are pretty good and inspire confidence, though in the level 3 regen, you can feel the distinct transition from the regen braking of the motor to the mechanical friction of the brakes.
On a purpose-built track strewn with rocks, ditches and potholes, the Punch EV’s ground clearance and favourable angles of approach and departure were superbly highlighted. That it has genuine off-road capability is a bonus.
ThePunch EVexcels in its transition to electric power and as an urban runabout it’s hard to beat. It’s got all the ingredients, a strong motor to scoot through traffic, high ground clearance and a brilliant suspension to make the best of the worst roads in any city. The small footprint and high driving position make threading this compact SUV through traffic utterly easy. What’s not to like? The cabin has a few rough edges, some of the controls lack a bit of finesse, but the biggest weakness is the lack of space in the rear seat. As a family car for four or five adults, you may want to stretch for the biggerNexon EV, but for the individual and as an urban runabout, the superbly equipped andsuperbly priced Punch EVhas absolutely no competition.Tata Motorshas knocked or rather punched this one clean out of the park.
Also see:
Tata Punch EV video review
Tata Punch EV variant-wise features explained
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Comprehensive update makes it a far more complete package, and you’d be happy to spend big money on it.
You really have to hand it to Tata Motors for constantly refreshing the Harrier since its launch in 2019. The model got a power upgrade, an automatic transmission and the all-important addition of a panoramic sunroof just a year after launch. Then there have been a couple of special editions, with each one debuting a feature or two that make it to the standard model in due course. In fact, just a couple of months ago came the Harrier Red Dark Edition with ADAS.
What we have here, however, is the most comprehensive update to the Harrier yet. It's new on the outside, it gets a redone interior, there's a whole lot more tech and there are some key mechanical changes as well. Should you be interested? In a word, yes.
Let’s talk styling first. Like a typical facelift, changes here are restricted to soft parts like the lights and bumpers, but the combined effect of all the new elements is an edgier and even more striking looking Harrier.
Taking centre stage up front is a larger grille that gets the requisite dose of flash with metal-like embellishments. The familiar, slim Daytime Running Lamps on top have been pinched further and now come connected by a light bar. This new arrangement has allowed the inclusion of a cool welcome animation, which is a big feel-good feature in its own right. Talking lights, the main headlights are now LED units and come vertically oriented amidst more prominent angular cutouts on the bumper. An aero-enhancing air passage from the bumper to the wheel wells has also been included. Lower down, there’s a larger surround for the air dam and a wider, chunkier scuff plate as well.
Changes in profile are limited, and it’s the new design for the wheels that’ll be your biggest giveaway of this being the updated Harrier. Notably, the wheels are now a size larger. 17 inches is the base size now, mid- and top-spec variants ride on 18 inchers, while the Dark Edition versions get 19 inchers! This aside, there’s bold Harrier lettering on the doors and a badge on the C pillar to commemorate Tata Motors’ journey to 50 lakh sales.
Styling at the back has been freshened up with reprofiled tail-lamps and the incorporation of a full-width light bar. The bumper has also been given a makeover with new vertically oriented elements. However, if you look closely, fit and finish isn’t perfect, there are still some ill-fitting bits like the misaligned rubber door seals.
Worth bringing in is that the Harrier will be offered in four trims – personas as Tata Motors calls them – that are identifiable on the outside by their wheels, detailing and exterior colours. The version featured here is the top-spec Fearless. And, you know what? Its Sunlit Yellow paint shade works.
Just as with the exterior, the Harrier’s interior also sees some big changes. There's a new, nice-to-hold steering wheel with a gloss black boss and an illuminated Tata logo; the dashboard has been refreshed with slimmer AC vents; and adding distinction are the new persona-based interior colour themes. Our Harrier Fearless+ in Sunlit Yellow sported a yellow panel on the dash as well as yellow contrast stitching and grab handles. It's loud and won't be to everyone's taste, but other exterior colours get more sober interior tones. My pick is the brown on black theme for the Adventure persona Harrier.
But more than the new colours, it's the new tech that does its bit to uplift the look of things inside. There's a new digital driver's display that has neat graphics and is easy to use. At 10.25 inches, it's large too, but some of the effect is lost because it is set quite far back in the deep instruments binnacle. The screen's ability to display a connected phone's map and that too in full screen is a huge plus though.
Perhaps the most significant tech update on the new Harrier is the new 12.3-inch touchscreen that feels a few generations superior to the older 8.8-inch unit. The latest unit is slick, it's responsive, it's vibrant and packs in a whole lot of features as well. There's wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a superb 360-deg camera which gives you a 3D image of the vehicle in its surroundings, and the screen is also your display for the onboard air purifier and JBL sound modes. There are 13 sound modes and they are nicely tuned to get the most out of the audio system. In all, the five-speaker (including a new one behind the dash), four-tweeter and subwoofer setup delivers a rich, deep and satisfying sound.
Also part of the package is ambient lighting on the dash and around the sunroof. Interestingly, while the hues can be changed via the touchscreen, you don't get a full spectrum of colours to choose from and the palette depends on the persona you've opted for.
The centre console for the climate control system is also redone and now sits in a gloss black panel. Save for temperature settings for the new dual-zone climate control that can be adjusted via toggles, all other functions are touch operated.
These controls stay hidden from view when the car is off and only light up when powering on. The arrangement looks cool but isn't perfect in execution. The touch slider for the blower control is fiddly to use and will need you to take your eyes off the road to get it right. Using voice commands is a workaround, provided you are patient enough to have a conversation with your car. The Harrier understands voice commands in six languages and the option to control the panoramic sunroof by voice is no less than a party trick.
Of the other things, the Harrier gets a new knurled rotary selector ahead of the gear lever for the Terrain modes. As premium as the dial with its inset display looks, it also reveals an ergonomic oversight – your hand will foul with the gear lever when using the dial. The base of the centre console in its entirety could do with a rethink because you are forced to contend with a wireless phone charger that's awkward to access and USB charging slots that aren't easy to plug into.
On the subject of ergonomics, despite Tata Motors repositioning the pedals to address the issue of the driver's left knee making contact with the dash, the problem persists. Also on my wish list would be a roomier footwell – there's no space to rest your clutch foot on the manual Harrier.
As before, the Harrier's front seats are nice and large, and the high seating gives a really commanding driving position. From behind the wheel, you get the feel of being in a big SUV and many will like the Harrier for just that. The driver's seat gets six-way power adjust and memory, the front passenger seat gets powered adjust too, and both front seats are ventilated.
Perceived quality and fit-finish have taken a jump up with the update. All your typical contact points like the steering, the gear lever and door handles feel really nice to touch but if you do poke around you will find some scratchy plastics too. The bigger concern surrounds the extensive use of gloss black materials. What we've seen in other cars, at least, is that this surface is prone to scratches and also attracts a lot of smudges, and this may take quite a bit of extra care to keep clean.
As mentioned, a more convenient phone storage bay would be nice but this aside, the Harrier does well on space for small items. There are bottle holders on the doors, a large glovebox with useful compartments, cupholders at the centre console as well as a cooled box between the seats that also features USB A and C ports.
Not all that much has changed at the back of the updated Harrier, but it does get some new additions. For instance, the rear windows now get sunshades, which come really handy on a hot day. Also different are the airline-style rear headrests that can be wrapped around your head to prevent excessive side to side movement.
As before, the highlight at the rear is space. Six footers will be at ease and there's also enough room for three adults to sit in comfort. What's disappointing is that there's no headrest for a middle passenger, though a three-point seatbelt has been included now.
A dedicated blower control for the rear section would have been a nice addition but cooling is good. The rear vents mounted on the B-pillars do a good job of directing cool air to your face. All said, you'll be comfortable for long hours on the back seat of a Harrier and there are enough provisions for your devices and odds and ends on a long journey. Storage spaces include two cup holders on the centre armrest, there's a bay for your phone and what's also handy is the shelf-like storage on the doors.
When it's time to load luggage, you'll welcome the addition of a powered and gesture-controlled tailgate. The boot can accommodate big suitcases with ease and a marginally lower floor has actually resulted in space increasing by 20 litres to 445 litres. The rear seats can be folded down if you need more room too. As before, the spare is mounted under the body and is a 16-inch steel rim.
That’s that for the changed on the outside and inside. But what’s the updated Harrier like to drive? The switch from a hydraulic to an electric power steering, move to larger wheels, suspension tweaks, inclusion of rear disc brakes and a BS6.2 engine promise much.
Of these changes, it's the improved steering that makes the biggest difference to the Harrier's driving experience. You feel the benefits of the new arrangement almost immediately with far less steering effort required at parking speeds and during U-turns. And the benefits of the new steering setup extend to high speed environments as well. That inconsistent steering feel on the old Harrier (slack at centre followed by a sharp response with just a few degrees of lock) has been done away with, and you get a more connected driving experience, though there is still a fair bit of play around the straight-ahead position.
Handling on the whole feels more sorted. Sport driving mode adds a bit more weight to the steering, which is nice when you're driving faster. I'm also happy to report that steering kickback is no longer a problem on the Harrier.
Has the move to larger rims corrupted the Harrier's ride? Actually, no. In fact, the updated Harrier feels pretty much the same on this front. On smaller surface imperfections, the Harrier still feels a bit jittery and a touch firm even. When the potholes become larger, the Harrier shines and takes the bumps like a champ. The ride also gets better the faster you go; it feels sure-footed at higher speeds, drives like the heavy car that it is, and it all comes together to give you great confidence.
Higher-spec versions of the Harrier now make the move to rear disc brakes. Braking performance with all four discs is good, but the feel from the pedal is a bit mushy. Under hard braking, there is a lot of pitch and there's no escaping the Harrier's sheer heft.
First things first, the updated Harrier doesn't get a petrol engine option as was widely expected. Tata's upcoming 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine is a good year or so away from joining the Harrier line-up. The Fiat-sourced diesel engine remains the sole engine on offer, but it is now BS6.2 compatible.
From behind the wheel, the 170hp, 350Nm, 2-litre diesel engine doesn't feel any different to the earlier versions. And that's because its characteristics remain the same: it's got a strong mid-range, a wide powerband and generally feels like a powerful engine. On the flip side, refinement levels are still far from class best standards, and this engine groans and moans at low speeds and booms when you extend it.
Drive modes, namely Eco, City and Sport, are part of the package, and each mode has its own  profile, with the throttle most responsive in Sport and most relaxed in Eco. There are Normal, Wet and Rough terrain modes too that tweak ESC characteristics for different conditions, but the front-wheel drive Harrier is no off-roader. However, it’ll do light trails with ease and has all the ground clearance you’d need.
As before, gearbox options include a six-speed manual and a six-speed torque converter automatic. We sampled the updated Harrier with a manual gearbox and found a slightly improved shift, although gear changes still need a bit of an effort. The bigger issue is the clutch that's got a long travel and is tricky to modulate. Frankly, the manual is not the gearbox of choice if you're interested in a Harrier.
The Tata Harrier feels tough and has even received a 5-star rating in adult and child occupant protection by Global NCAP.
Irrespective of which gearbox or persona you choose, all Harriers get 6 airbags, ESC, traction control, 3 point seatbelts for all seats, Isofix child seat mounts, tyre pressure monitoring system and more as standard. Higher-spec versions add in hill descent control, a driver knee airbag and also get a camera- and radar-based Advanced Driver Assistance systems or ADAS.
The blind spot warning and blind view monitor (they relay a camera feed from the wing mirrors onto the centre screen) greatly enhance situational awareness, and features like cross traffic alert, auto high beam assist and traffic sign recognition are a boon in our conditions. The Harrier gets a lane departure warning too, and over the next few months, lane keep assist (that brings in steering intervention) will also be added. The feature will be rolled out to the initial batch of Harriers via a software update.
We didn't dare test the autonomous emergency braking system, but missed the option to adjust distance settings for the forward collision warning function. Tailing a car close didn’t give a warning prompt when we expected it to. Unfortunately, we couldn't experience adaptive cruise control, which is restricted to the automatics only. Just another reason to opt for the automatics, then.
The 2024 Harrier has goneon sale, with prices startingat Rs 15.49 lakh (introductory, ex-showroom, India) for the base Pure manual variant.
With the updates, Tata has addressed many of the Harrier's weaknesses. The new steering makes the SUV far easier to live with, it’s taken a huge leap forwards in tech and there’s a newfound wow factor to the interior. At the same time, the new styling builds on the original design to fantastic effect.
However, a petrol engine is missed, and punchy as the diesel is, it’s not as refined as it ought to be. Looking at the big picture though, the Harrier is now a far more complete package and a Tata you’d be happy to spend big money on. Expect to see a lot of them on our roads.
Also See:
Tata Harrier facelift video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Punch has carved a dominant position for itself in the micro SUV segment, but does the Exter have enough to challenge it?
Having carved a niche within the sub-4-metre compact SUV segment, the Tata Punch has made quite an impression on the sales charts. With its SUV-esque styling and clever packaging, it has become Tata Motors’ second-bestselling car (after the Nexon).
Hyundai now wants in on the action too and has launched the Exter to grab a share of the Punch’s pie. With six airbags as standard, ESP (optional) from the base variant, and stuffed with modern niceties, the Exter is well-armed to take on the Tata, and customers have already taken notice. The car hit a milestone of 50,000 bookings within a month of its launch, but it has also persuaded Tata to introduce more equipment in the Punch (like a sunroof), to defend its position. We pit the AMT variants of these two sub-compact SUVs to find out which one deserves your money.
Right off the bat, the Exter’s 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol engine impresses with its smoothness and refinement. Due to its linear power delivery and freer-revving nature, it delivers effortless performance. And complementing it is a smooth-shifting 5-speed automated manual transmission. What’s unique is that unlike conventional AMTs, Hyundai has deployed electrical actuators to perform gear shift duties rather than hydraulic actuators, and as a result, shifts are relatively seamless. Although slow, they flow smoothly into each other.
This gearbox is also nicely reactive to inputs, and it also doesn’t hesitate to hold high revs helping you extract the best out of this petrol engine. Those who enjoy driving will particularly appreciate the presence of paddle-shifters, for greater control over the transmission and a higher degree of engagement. Appreciably, even in manual mode, if you forget to upshift or downshift, the AMT will do it for you.
Being a three-cylinder unit, Tata’s 1.2-litre has a rougher idle and emits some vibrations into the cabin. Sure, these smoothen on the move, but there is no getting away from the gravely engine note and its louder thrum at higher revs. On the plus side, the Punch’s engine makes more power, and also feels more responsive and stronger lower down the rev range. Bring the 5-speed AMT into the equation, and things are vastly different. The transmission is tuned for efficiency, so upshifts are early, and downshifts are conservative too. Even the pause between gearshifts is more pronounced. Thus, overall performance is lacklustre resulting in unimpressive acceleration times.
In our instrumented acceleration tests, the Exter AMT sprints from 0-100kph in 15.59 seconds, nearly 4.5 seconds quicker than the Punch AMT. Even the Hyundai’s rolling acceleration times from 20-80kph and 40-100kph are around 2 and 3.5 seconds quicker, respectively.
In our previous reports, we’ve had only praises for the way Tata tuned the Punch’s suspension, which not only exudes an underlying toughness, but gets the balance between ride and handling spot on. Seen back to back, the Punch’s stiffer suspension shines, the Tata feels relatively more planted and sure-footed at speeds, and its handling feels sharper too. Expectedly though, a trade-off to its excellent high-speed manners is that at city speeds, ride quality is firm and it feels a bit jittery over bad roads.
On the other hand, the Exter’s softly setup suspension is tuned for comfort, so it swallows road shocks and absorbs bumps very nicely. And while it feels comfier in the city, on the highway, the Exter pitches and bobs more. Another point of difference between them is their brake pedal feel – while stopping performance is similar, the Exter’s feel more natural, whereas the Tata’s are a bit too sharp and take some getting used to.
Measuring 3.8m in length, these cars are shorter than most sub-4m compact SUVs, hence they’re categorised as sub-compact SUVs. What’s interesting is that they are quite similar in every dimension, and their wheelbase is also within millimetres of each other, as is their ground clearance, with the Exter’s being 185mm and the Punch’s being 187mm.
The Exter is based on the Grand i10 Nios, but there’s nothing that visually links ties to its hatchback counterpart, on the outside at least. Hyundai has done well to give it the much-needed ‘SUV’ flair; so its bonnet has been flattened, its stance has been elevated and it also sports chunky body cladding and roof rails. And wearing a snazzy design language with unique elements such as H-patterned DRLs, multi-dimensional panels (on the front grille, C-pillar and boot) and exaggerated haunches, the Exter has a lot going for it.
The Punch isn’t based on a previous car and is underpinned by the ALFA platform. The car is a well-proportioned, handsome one that strikes some resemblance to the Harrier when viewed head-on. In addition, its larger 16-inch alloys and relatively cleaner bodywork add to its appeal.
Another talking point is the Punch’s good performance in Global NCAP tests in 2021, where it secured 5 stars for crash safety. While the Exter hasn’t been crash tested, Hyundai claims to have strengthened the structure over the Nios, which was awarded 2 stars by Global NCAP in 2020. Hyundai is confident now that its stronger structure and safety features like six airbags and ESP will equate to a respectable crash safety score.
In contrast to its snazzy exteriors, the Exter’s cabin is familiar to the Grand i10 and is monotone in shade. Thus, it feels a bit drab. Hyundai has cleverly positioned the seats low to liberate a feeling of space inside, and its sunroof plays a huge role to brighten up this space. But the talking point is undoubtedly the quality of bits and fit-finish on the inside, and that sets a benchmark in this segment; even the knobs, buttons and stalks operate with great finesse.
Ergonomics are friendlier than the Tata’s and while its front seats are comfortable, those with larger frames might find them a bit lacking in terms of bolstering and support. Like the front, even its rear seat is lower-set, so this is a car that you sit inside, and not walk into, like the Punch (more on that later). Space at the rear is ample for two adults, and the backrest is nicely angled. Rear AC vents add to passenger comfort, but a rear armrest is missing.
The Punch’s doors open 90 degrees and its seats are higher-set than the Exter’s, which eases ingress-egress. What also makes a positive impression is the cabin’s vibrancy and airiness thanks to the white fascia on the layered dashboard, as well as a splash of body colour around its air vents. You’re sat in a more ‘SUV’ position with the bonnet in your field of vision, and even its front seats are broader and more accommodating than the Hyundai’s.
In its latest iteration, Tata has also introduced Land Rover-like armrests for the front seats, to enhance seat comfort. At the back, you are seated in a very chair-like position, with the backrest that’s relatively more upright. While space is comparable with the Hyundai, the Tata gets a centre armrest, although it lacks rear AC vents. While on paper, the Tata’s boot is much smaller than the Exter’s, and even though it isn’t as deep, usable luggage space is quite comparable.
Both the Exter and Punch boast of features like a sunroof, automatic climate control, reverse camera, cruise control and Android Auto/Apple CarPlay, among the notable ones. The Punch gets larger 16-inch wheels (versus the Exter’s 15-inch), great-sounding Harman speakers, auto headlamps, rain-sensing wipers and a clever Traction Pro feature (brake locking differential) to pull you out of some sticky situations.
On the other hand, the Exter gets six airbags across the range, ESP as well as modern niceties like a larger and slicker 8-inch touchscreen (versus Punch’s 7-inch), dash camera, digital instrument cluster, wireless charging and rear air-con vents.
Equipment checklistHyundai Exter SX(O) DTTata Punch Creative Flagship (DT)Projector headlampsYesNoAlloys15-inch16-inchTouchscreen8-inch7-inchAndroid Auto/Apple CarPlayYesYesWireless ChargingYesNoSunroofYesYesDash CameraYesNoRear AC ventsYesNoAuto headlamps/wipersNoYesESPYesNoAirbags62PriceRs 10.10 lakhRs 10.10 lakhHyundai Exter vs Tata Punch: verdict
The Tata Punch has its strengths: it looks smart, drives confidently, and, on account of its elevated seating, it is the better choice for the elderly.
However, in every other way, the Hyundai Exter is better than the Tata. Its engine is more refined, performance is stronger, gearbox is smoother, and space and practicality are marginally better. And, typical to a Hyundai, it is well-equipped and packs in many modern niceties that the Punch misses. With so much going for the Hyundai Exter, it wins this comparison quite convincingly.
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
tata-altroz
Comprehensive update makes it a far more complete package, and you’d be happy to spend big money on it.
You really have to hand it to Tata Motors for constantly refreshing the Harrier since its launch in 2019. The model got a power upgrade, an automatic transmission and the all-important addition of a panoramic sunroof just a year after launch. Then there have been a couple of special editions, with each one debuting a feature or two that make it to the standard model in due course. In fact, just a couple of months ago came the Harrier Red Dark Edition with ADAS.
What we have here, however, is the most comprehensive update to the Harrier yet. It's new on the outside, it gets a redone interior, there's a whole lot more tech and there are some key mechanical changes as well. Should you be interested? In a word, yes.
Let’s talk styling first. Like a typical facelift, changes here are restricted to soft parts like the lights and bumpers, but the combined effect of all the new elements is an edgier and even more striking looking Harrier.
Taking centre stage up front is a larger grille that gets the requisite dose of flash with metal-like embellishments. The familiar, slim Daytime Running Lamps on top have been pinched further and now come connected by a light bar. This new arrangement has allowed the inclusion of a cool welcome animation, which is a big feel-good feature in its own right. Talking lights, the main headlights are now LED units and come vertically oriented amidst more prominent angular cutouts on the bumper. An aero-enhancing air passage from the bumper to the wheel wells has also been included. Lower down, there’s a larger surround for the air dam and a wider, chunkier scuff plate as well.
Changes in profile are limited, and it’s the new design for the wheels that’ll be your biggest giveaway of this being the updated Harrier. Notably, the wheels are now a size larger. 17 inches is the base size now, mid- and top-spec variants ride on 18 inchers, while the Dark Edition versions get 19 inchers! This aside, there’s bold Harrier lettering on the doors and a badge on the C pillar to commemorate Tata Motors’ journey to 50 lakh sales.
Styling at the back has been freshened up with reprofiled tail-lamps and the incorporation of a full-width light bar. The bumper has also been given a makeover with new vertically oriented elements. However, if you look closely, fit and finish isn’t perfect, there are still some ill-fitting bits like the misaligned rubber door seals.
Worth bringing in is that the Harrier will be offered in four trims – personas as Tata Motors calls them – that are identifiable on the outside by their wheels, detailing and exterior colours. The version featured here is the top-spec Fearless. And, you know what? Its Sunlit Yellow paint shade works.
Just as with the exterior, the Harrier’s interior also sees some big changes. There's a new, nice-to-hold steering wheel with a gloss black boss and an illuminated Tata logo; the dashboard has been refreshed with slimmer AC vents; and adding distinction are the new persona-based interior colour themes. Our Harrier Fearless+ in Sunlit Yellow sported a yellow panel on the dash as well as yellow contrast stitching and grab handles. It's loud and won't be to everyone's taste, but other exterior colours get more sober interior tones. My pick is the brown on black theme for the Adventure persona Harrier.
But more than the new colours, it's the new tech that does its bit to uplift the look of things inside. There's a new digital driver's display that has neat graphics and is easy to use. At 10.25 inches, it's large too, but some of the effect is lost because it is set quite far back in the deep instruments binnacle. The screen's ability to display a connected phone's map and that too in full screen is a huge plus though.
Perhaps the most significant tech update on the new Harrier is the new 12.3-inch touchscreen that feels a few generations superior to the older 8.8-inch unit. The latest unit is slick, it's responsive, it's vibrant and packs in a whole lot of features as well. There's wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a superb 360-deg camera which gives you a 3D image of the vehicle in its surroundings, and the screen is also your display for the onboard air purifier and JBL sound modes. There are 13 sound modes and they are nicely tuned to get the most out of the audio system. In all, the five-speaker (including a new one behind the dash), four-tweeter and subwoofer setup delivers a rich, deep and satisfying sound.
Also part of the package is ambient lighting on the dash and around the sunroof. Interestingly, while the hues can be changed via the touchscreen, you don't get a full spectrum of colours to choose from and the palette depends on the persona you've opted for.
The centre console for the climate control system is also redone and now sits in a gloss black panel. Save for temperature settings for the new dual-zone climate control that can be adjusted via toggles, all other functions are touch operated.
These controls stay hidden from view when the car is off and only light up when powering on. The arrangement looks cool but isn't perfect in execution. The touch slider for the blower control is fiddly to use and will need you to take your eyes off the road to get it right. Using voice commands is a workaround, provided you are patient enough to have a conversation with your car. The Harrier understands voice commands in six languages and the option to control the panoramic sunroof by voice is no less than a party trick.
Of the other things, the Harrier gets a new knurled rotary selector ahead of the gear lever for the Terrain modes. As premium as the dial with its inset display looks, it also reveals an ergonomic oversight – your hand will foul with the gear lever when using the dial. The base of the centre console in its entirety could do with a rethink because you are forced to contend with a wireless phone charger that's awkward to access and USB charging slots that aren't easy to plug into.
On the subject of ergonomics, despite Tata Motors repositioning the pedals to address the issue of the driver's left knee making contact with the dash, the problem persists. Also on my wish list would be a roomier footwell – there's no space to rest your clutch foot on the manual Harrier.
As before, the Harrier's front seats are nice and large, and the high seating gives a really commanding driving position. From behind the wheel, you get the feel of being in a big SUV and many will like the Harrier for just that. The driver's seat gets six-way power adjust and memory, the front passenger seat gets powered adjust too, and both front seats are ventilated.
Perceived quality and fit-finish have taken a jump up with the update. All your typical contact points like the steering, the gear lever and door handles feel really nice to touch but if you do poke around you will find some scratchy plastics too. The bigger concern surrounds the extensive use of gloss black materials. What we've seen in other cars, at least, is that this surface is prone to scratches and also attracts a lot of smudges, and this may take quite a bit of extra care to keep clean.
As mentioned, a more convenient phone storage bay would be nice but this aside, the Harrier does well on space for small items. There are bottle holders on the doors, a large glovebox with useful compartments, cupholders at the centre console as well as a cooled box between the seats that also features USB A and C ports.
Not all that much has changed at the back of the updated Harrier, but it does get some new additions. For instance, the rear windows now get sunshades, which come really handy on a hot day. Also different are the airline-style rear headrests that can be wrapped around your head to prevent excessive side to side movement.
As before, the highlight at the rear is space. Six footers will be at ease and there's also enough room for three adults to sit in comfort. What's disappointing is that there's no headrest for a middle passenger, though a three-point seatbelt has been included now.
A dedicated blower control for the rear section would have been a nice addition but cooling is good. The rear vents mounted on the B-pillars do a good job of directing cool air to your face. All said, you'll be comfortable for long hours on the back seat of a Harrier and there are enough provisions for your devices and odds and ends on a long journey. Storage spaces include two cup holders on the centre armrest, there's a bay for your phone and what's also handy is the shelf-like storage on the doors.
When it's time to load luggage, you'll welcome the addition of a powered and gesture-controlled tailgate. The boot can accommodate big suitcases with ease and a marginally lower floor has actually resulted in space increasing by 20 litres to 445 litres. The rear seats can be folded down if you need more room too. As before, the spare is mounted under the body and is a 16-inch steel rim.
That’s that for the changed on the outside and inside. But what’s the updated Harrier like to drive? The switch from a hydraulic to an electric power steering, move to larger wheels, suspension tweaks, inclusion of rear disc brakes and a BS6.2 engine promise much.
Of these changes, it's the improved steering that makes the biggest difference to the Harrier's driving experience. You feel the benefits of the new arrangement almost immediately with far less steering effort required at parking speeds and during U-turns. And the benefits of the new steering setup extend to high speed environments as well. That inconsistent steering feel on the old Harrier (slack at centre followed by a sharp response with just a few degrees of lock) has been done away with, and you get a more connected driving experience, though there is still a fair bit of play around the straight-ahead position.
Handling on the whole feels more sorted. Sport driving mode adds a bit more weight to the steering, which is nice when you're driving faster. I'm also happy to report that steering kickback is no longer a problem on the Harrier.
Has the move to larger rims corrupted the Harrier's ride? Actually, no. In fact, the updated Harrier feels pretty much the same on this front. On smaller surface imperfections, the Harrier still feels a bit jittery and a touch firm even. When the potholes become larger, the Harrier shines and takes the bumps like a champ. The ride also gets better the faster you go; it feels sure-footed at higher speeds, drives like the heavy car that it is, and it all comes together to give you great confidence.
Higher-spec versions of the Harrier now make the move to rear disc brakes. Braking performance with all four discs is good, but the feel from the pedal is a bit mushy. Under hard braking, there is a lot of pitch and there's no escaping the Harrier's sheer heft.
First things first, the updated Harrier doesn't get a petrol engine option as was widely expected. Tata's upcoming 1.5-litre turbo-petrol engine is a good year or so away from joining the Harrier line-up. The Fiat-sourced diesel engine remains the sole engine on offer, but it is now BS6.2 compatible.
From behind the wheel, the 170hp, 350Nm, 2-litre diesel engine doesn't feel any different to the earlier versions. And that's because its characteristics remain the same: it's got a strong mid-range, a wide powerband and generally feels like a powerful engine. On the flip side, refinement levels are still far from class best standards, and this engine groans and moans at low speeds and booms when you extend it.
Drive modes, namely Eco, City and Sport, are part of the package, and each mode has its own  profile, with the throttle most responsive in Sport and most relaxed in Eco. There are Normal, Wet and Rough terrain modes too that tweak ESC characteristics for different conditions, but the front-wheel drive Harrier is no off-roader. However, it’ll do light trails with ease and has all the ground clearance you’d need.
As before, gearbox options include a six-speed manual and a six-speed torque converter automatic. We sampled the updated Harrier with a manual gearbox and found a slightly improved shift, although gear changes still need a bit of an effort. The bigger issue is the clutch that's got a long travel and is tricky to modulate. Frankly, the manual is not the gearbox of choice if you're interested in a Harrier.
The Tata Harrier feels tough and has even received a 5-star rating in adult and child occupant protection by Global NCAP.
Irrespective of which gearbox or persona you choose, all Harriers get 6 airbags, ESC, traction control, 3 point seatbelts for all seats, Isofix child seat mounts, tyre pressure monitoring system and more as standard. Higher-spec versions add in hill descent control, a driver knee airbag and also get a camera- and radar-based Advanced Driver Assistance systems or ADAS.
The blind spot warning and blind view monitor (they relay a camera feed from the wing mirrors onto the centre screen) greatly enhance situational awareness, and features like cross traffic alert, auto high beam assist and traffic sign recognition are a boon in our conditions. The Harrier gets a lane departure warning too, and over the next few months, lane keep assist (that brings in steering intervention) will also be added. The feature will be rolled out to the initial batch of Harriers via a software update.
We didn't dare test the autonomous emergency braking system, but missed the option to adjust distance settings for the forward collision warning function. Tailing a car close didn’t give a warning prompt when we expected it to. Unfortunately, we couldn't experience adaptive cruise control, which is restricted to the automatics only. Just another reason to opt for the automatics, then.
The 2024 Harrier has goneon sale, with prices startingat Rs 15.49 lakh (introductory, ex-showroom, India) for the base Pure manual variant.
With the updates, Tata has addressed many of the Harrier's weaknesses. The new steering makes the SUV far easier to live with, it’s taken a huge leap forwards in tech and there’s a newfound wow factor to the interior. At the same time, the new styling builds on the original design to fantastic effect.
However, a petrol engine is missed, and punchy as the diesel is, it’s not as refined as it ought to be. Looking at the big picture though, the Harrier is now a far more complete package and a Tata you’d be happy to spend big money on. Expect to see a lot of them on our roads.
Also See:
Tata Harrier facelift video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Tata Motors takes the CNG game forward with the well-packaged and feature-rich Altroz iCNG.
In theory, CNG cars offer the best of both worlds. You get lower running costs compared to your normal petrol and diesel cars and they’re lower on emissions as well, making them kinder to the environment. But there’s always been some compromises with CNG cars in general – boot space and drivability – that’s discouraged potential buyers, until now; enter the Tata Altroz iCNG.
The Altroz iCNG’s USP is the fact that you get lower running costs without having to sacrifice boot space entirely. Tata Motors has used an innovative twin-cylinder setup for the CNG tanks that are placed under the boot floor, where you’d normally find the spare wheel. This packaging liberates 210 litres of boot space, which, though down on the standard Altroz’s 345-litre boot, is still better than nothing at all.
The positioning of the tanks raises another question: what about the spare wheel? Tata has thought of that too. The iCNG gets a smaller size spare that’s mounted underneath the car, the likes we’ve seen on SUVs. The spare can be released by loosening a bolt inside the boot, just ahead of the CNG tanks. The tyre drops down on a cord and is unhooked easily enough, and to put it back, you simply hook it up again and wind it the other way. And that’s not all, Tata also provides the Altroz iCNG with a puncture repair kit.
Safety has also been a cause for concern in CNG cars thus far as the tanks are placed in close proximity to the passenger compartment, so in case of a crash or a leak, it can be dangerous. To alleviate those concerns, the Altroz gets a fire extinguisher under the driver’s seat and a system that automatically switches to petrol if a leak is detected. Tata also claims it has used “advanced materials” in the CNG kit. Furthermore, there’s a micro switch in the fuel filler area, which shuts off the car during refuelling. It also gets thermal incident protection that cuts off CNG supply to the engine and releases the gas into the atmosphere if a fire is detected. The Altroz’s CNG tanks also sit in a cradle, which prevents it from entering the passenger compartment in the event of a crash.
But one thing you’ll still have to contend with is the CNG infrastructure in our country, or the lack thereof, and the long queues for fill-ups.
Powering the Altroz iCNG is Tata’s 1.2-litre, three-cylinder engine that puts out 73.5hp and 103Nm in CNG mode and 88hp and 115Nm in petrol mode. Another advantage of the Altroz iCNG is that it can be fired up directly in CNG mode, which saves petrol during starting. This is down to the Altroz only having one ECU, compared to the two that’s been the norm for CNG cars so far. Apart from the aforementioned advantage, another plus point of a single ECU is that there’s no delay in switching between CNG and petrol modes, which makes the entire experience seamless.
As for performance, there is a noticeable difference between the two modes, but it’s not as large as you’d expect. For starters, the engine doesn’t feel strained when running on CNG, which means you’ll be happy to let it run in that mode most of the time. But you should know that performance was never this engine’s strong suit. It builds speed in a laidback manner and there isn’t much to extract at the top end even if you rev it out. It’s not very refined either as you do hear a lot of the engine inside the cabin.
The clutch, however, is light and easy to modulate, but the 5-speed gearbox takes some effort to slot in. As for fuel efficiency, Tata is yet to disclose official figures for the Altroz iCNG, so we’ll update you as and when we get our hands on them.
In order to compensate for the extra weight (around 150-200kg), Tata has stiffened the Altroz’s rear suspension by about 15 percent. But this has only had a marginal effect on the way this car rides. It does feel a bit stiffer, especially at lower speeds, but it’s never uncomfortable. It continues to feel comfy and composed over bumps and that feeling only increases as you pick up pace. What also helps is that the Altroz’s ALFA platform was designed with CNG powertrains in mind, so the ground work was in place from the start.
The Altroz was also one of the nicest-handling hatches around, and that’s still the case. Body movements are kept well in check around corners, and the steering is feel some and weighs up nicely as you go faster. If only the engine had the performance to match this chassis’ superb dynamics.
There’s not much to discuss in terms of design as almost nothing has changed. The only things of note are two new badges – an iCNG badge on the boot and a ‘50 lakh cars sold’ milestone badge on the C-pillar. But again, nothing needed to change as the Altroz remains one of the most stylish hatches on the market. As for colour options, you can have the iCNG in Downtown Red, Arcade Grey, Avenue White and this Opera Blue shade you see here.
The interior also remains largely unchanged, but there are a few differences. The biggest of which is the new 4-inch LCD digital instrument cluster, which has been taken from the Tiago and Tigor iCNG models and features two fuel indicators – one for petrol and one for CNG. It does look out of place on a premium hatch like this though. Other changes are a CNG button on the right-hand side of the steering and the omission of the drive mode button from near the gear lever. Other than that, the Altroz’s stylish, layered dash remains identical to the rest of the range. The materials feel nice enough and you get a sense that it’s built to last.
Space inside the cabin also remains one of the Altroz’s strong points. The front seats are large and supportive while at the rear, though the knee room is more than ample, taller passengers will find headroom to be a bit tight. But what’s nice is that you do get an armrest, dedicated AC vents, a USB port and adjustable headrests for rear passengers.
Another thing which prospective buyers will appreciate is the number of trims the Altroz iCNG is offered in. Where its chief rival, the Baleno CNG, is only offered in two mid-spec trims, the Altroz iCNG is available in six trims – the base XE to the top-spec XZ+ O (S). This should give buyers the liberty to choose a trim that best suits their needs without having to compromise on features.
Speaking of which, this top-spec XZ+ O (S) model we tested was loaded with features like a sunroof (a first for a CNG hatch in India, which can also be operated via voice commands), 16-inch alloys, leatherette upholstery, auto headlamps/wipers, ambient lighting, a 7-inch touchscreen with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity, Tata’s iRA connected car tech, a wireless phone charger and an onboard air purifier. Safety kit includes dual airbags, corner stability control, ISOFIX mounts, adjustable headrests, rear camera and rear parking sensors. The Altroz has received a 5-star safety rating from Global NCAP, but that was based on the older testing protocol.
While this car is fully loaded, it would have been nice to see some more features that are already present on the rest of the Altroz range like drive modes, cruise control, the digi-analogue cluster with a colour TFT screen and auto engine start/stop. Furthermore, things like LED headlights, wireless smartphone connectivity, Tata’s new 10.25-inch touchscreen, more airbags and ESC would have been nice in this premium hatch, but it’s perhaps being saved for a later update.
The Altroz iCNG is priced at Rs 7.55 lakh for the base XE trim and Rs 10.55 lakh for the top-spec XZ+ O (S) (introductory prices, ex-showroom, Delhi). Meanwhile, its rivals, the Baleno CNG and Glanza CNG, cost between Rs 8.35 lakh-9.28 lakh and Rs 8.50 lakh-9.53 lakh, respectively. While it may seem like they’re more affordable, they’re only offered in their mid-spec trims and miss out on a lot of features that the top-spec Altroz iCNG offers like a sunroof, leatherette upholstery and more.
In conclusion, the Altroz iCNG does a good job of making a CNG car feel premium and not something that’s just reserved for taxis, commercial vehicles and such. Sure, the top-spec variant is pricey (it costs even more than highest-spec Altroz diesel), but it gives you the option of having a fully-loaded CNG car, which wasn’t the case in our market earlier. Moreover, the Altroz is the only car on sale in India that can be had with a petrol, diesel, turbo-petrol, and now, a CNG powertrain option, which is a boon for potential buyers. If you’re one of those that thinks CNG cars would never have the practicality or premiumness of a regular petrol or diesel car, the Altroz iCNG will make you think again.
Also see:
Tata Altroz CNG video review
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
Scouting for a new premium hatchback? We bring together all the options in the market right now.
It’s been a while since we had a good old-fashioned group comparison of premium hatchbacks, right? Thing is, there hasn’t been much activity in the segment for quite some time. 2022, however, has put the spotlight back on what is the hottest non-SUV segment, what with the arrival of the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno and its twin from partner Toyota, the new Glanza. Over the past few months, the Tata Altroz has also got the much-awaited option of an automatic gearbox, and even the Hyundai i20 line-up has seen a mild reshuffle. Missing here is the Volkswagen Polo that’s just bowed out after 12 years and we’ve passed up on the competent Honda Jazz too, which is in its run-out phase.
The four contenders will be judged on our usual long list of parameters, but convenience, comfort, feel good factor and value will get due importance.
Given that this is the first time we’re seeing the quartet in one frame, we’ll start with the matter of design and styling. Built to conform to the ‘small car’ specifications for excise benefits, each of these hatchbacks measures just under 4m in length. And there isn’t all that much difference between them in height and width either. However, there are very different approaches to styling visible here.
The new Baleno is arguably the most conservative in appearance. There’s a clear visual link to the last-gen Baleno and many might not even register it as a new model at first glance. But a closer look will tell you much has changed. All body panels are new and, in general, there’s a chunkier, more solid appearance to the car. The wide, chrome-lined grille, three-dot LED Daytime Running Lights and LED signature at the tail-lights give the Baleno enough flash too.
What’s nice is that the new Glanza isn’t merely a Baleno with a Toyota badge slapped on to it, as was the case the last time around. Yes, the basic design is same, but the Toyota sports a redone front end, which helps give it more of an identity of its own. The Glanza’s slimmer grille and sportier front bumper (replete with faux carbon-fibre detailing!) give it a more youthful look, and many at the office actually preferred the Glanza’s styling to the Baleno’s.
You’ll get stronger reactions to the i20’s look. It’s the most radical in its styling, with its large grille and drooping nose, multiple cuts and creases on the sheet metal, and Z-shaped LED signatures at the tail-lights. The i20 looks the most distinct and many will like/dislike it for just that. The Tata Altroz? To my eyes, it’s a classically handsome car with just the right proportions. The large swept-back headlights and edgy tail make it easy to identify, and it really can carry off that tipped forward stance with elan.
Technical DetailsToyota Glanza 1.2P V AMTMaruti Suzuki Baleno 1.2P Alpha AMTHyundai i20 1.2P iVT Asta (O)Tata Altroz 1.2P XZ+ DCAL/W/H3990/1745/1500mm3990/1745/1500mm3995/1775/1505mm3990/1755/1523mmWheelbase2520mm2520mm2580mm2501mmTyres195/55 R16195/55 R16195/55 R16185/60 R16Kerb weight960kg960kg1022Kg1088kgEngine4 cyls, 1197cc, petrol4 cyls, 1197cc, petrol4 cyls, 1197cc, petrol3 cyls, 1197cc, petrolPower90hp at 6000rpm90hp at 6000rpm88hp at 6000rpm86hp at 6000rpmTorque113Nm at 4400rpm113Nm at 4400rpm114.7Nm at 4200rpm113Nm at 3300rpmGearbox5-speed AMT5-speed AMT6 step CVT6-speed dual-clutch autoFuel economy (ARAI)22.94kpl22.94kpl19.6kpl18.18kplFuel tank capacity37 litres37 litres37 litres37 litresBoot space318 litres318 litres311 litres345 litresGlanza vs Baleno vs i20 vs Altroz: interior
It’s inside that the new Baleno really looks and feels like a new Baleno. The experience starts with a deeper sound on door shut. The layered dashboard is stylish and Maruti has even been adventurous with a navy blue finish for the lower plastics; though the colour only comes through on bright days.
The large free-standing 9.0-inch touchscreen is in keeping with the times, and though the dials are analogue, the colour MID screen is well executed. Quality has also taken a jump up, with a more premium feel to touch points like the steering, front centre armrest and climate control buttons.
The sculpted front seats add to the look and are supportive too, though not everyone will take to the overly soft cushioning.
The Glanza’s interior is identical to the Baleno in every way, save for the colour theme. And interestingly enough, it’s that beige on black theme that might make some prefer the Glanza over the Baleno. The Glanza interior’s lighter colours not only appear a bit more premium, but also enhance the sense of space inside.
In absolute terms, however, it’s the i20 that has the roomiest cabin. It’s the widest of the hatchbacks and the low-set dash not only helps the airy feeling inside but also allows the best view out.
Other highlights include the large 10.25-inch touchscreen that sits in clear sight without being obtrusive, and the digital instrument cluster (we aren’t fans of the counterclockwise tacho) also adds some vibrancy to the all-black interior. Sadly, quality is not the best we’ve seen from Hyundai, with quite a few scratchy plastics inside. Also, the i20’s front seats aren’t the largest or most supportive.
Thanks to doors that open 90 degrees, getting into an Altroz is that little bit easier than the other cars here. And that thud on door shut makes for a reassuring welcome note too; the Tata feels the toughest in its build. Plastic quality is of a generally good standard (panel fit could be better at places), there’s a slick use of different textures and colours, and the leatherette upholstery, unique to the Tata, only further ups the ambience inside.
What stands out, or perhaps not enough, is the free-standing 7.0-inch touchscreen that’s the smallest here. The part-digital instruments with squared-out dials aren’t easiest to refer to either. Front seat comfort is good but drivers will miss telescopic steering adjust, a feature offered on the others. The thick A-pillars also hamper visibility at crossroads.
We’ve considered these cars in their highest trim levels and each gets you a whole lot of goodies. Keyless entry, push-button start, auto headlights, front centre armrests, cruise control, touchscreens with Android Auto/Apple CarPlay, connected tech and auto climate control are some of the features you’d find on all.
The fully loaded Hyundai i20 Asta(O) is the priciest car here but it does hold allure, being the only one to offer a sunroof. Of the other things, the i20’s slick 10.25-inch touchscreen is the largest, it’s got the crispest rear camera and is the only one to get a wireless phone charger. The i20’s Bose sound system also adds most depth to your music.
The top-spec Baleno Alpha and Glanza V are identical in what they offer. Head-up display that projects info like speed, RPM, blower settings and AC temperature onto a fold-out screen in your line of sight is a cool inclusion.
It’s not a feature you’d necessarily want, but one that is easy to get used to. Also included is a handy (and segment-first) 360-degree camera, though the resolution is just alright. The Baleno and Glanza’s 9.0-inch touchscreens are nice to use, and auto-dimming inside mirrors are also a premium inclusion. The duo do well enough for themselves with an Arkamys sound module that offers good adjustability.
The Tata Altroz XZ+ is on the back foot when talking wow features. Its touchscreen is the smallest, the interface is laggy and the reverse camera is relatively low-res too. The Tata’s four-speaker, four-tweeter audio system does deliver punchy sound though.
Where the Altroz has bragging rights is in the area of safety courtesy of a Global NCAP 5-star rating for adult occupant protection. The i20 was rated three stars while the Baleno and Glanza are yet to be put to the test. Interestingly, where the fully loaded i20, Baleno and Glanza get six airbags, the Altroz makes do with just two. Things will equalise later this year when the six airbag norm comes into effect. Over and above regulatory requirements of ABS and rear parking sensors, all cars get ESC and ISOFIX child-seat mounts.
EquipmentToyota Glanza 1.2P V AMTMaruti Suzuki Baleno 1.2P Alpha AMTHyundai i20 1.2P iVT Asta (O)Tata Altroz 1.2P XZ+ DCAAirbags6662ESCAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableTyre pressure monitorNANAAvailableAvailableISOFIX child seat mountsAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableHeadlightsLED projectorLED projectorLED projectorHalogen projectorAuto headlights/wipersAvailable/NAAvailable/NAAvailable/AvailableAvailable/AvailableLeatherette upholsteryNANANAAvailableHead up displayAvailableAvailableNANATouchscreen9.0-inch9.0-inch10.25-inch10.25-inchCamera360-degree360-degreeRearRearWireless chargerNANAAvailableNAAuto-dimming rear view mirrorAvailableAvailableNANACruise controlAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableSunroofNANAAvailableNAAuto climate controlAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableRear AC ventsAvailableAvailableAvailableAvailableRear armrestNANAAvailableAvailableIdle stop/startAvailableAvailableNANAGlanza vs Baleno vs i20 vs Altroz:interior space and storage
These cars are large as hatchbacks go, and each offers ample kneeroom at the back. Rear AC vents, adjustable headrests for the outboard seats and some form of charging also make it easy to get comfy at the back of these cars. But there are differences.
It’s the i20 that’s the roomiest, with the most knee-, head- and shoulder-room. Three abreast seating is easily the comfiest in the i20 and the large windows also lend an airy feeling inside.
Tall passengers will find the Baleno and Glanza just about adequate on rear headroom. A rear centre armrest (offered in the i20 and Altroz) is missed too and again, the overly soft seat cushioning isn’t ideal on long journeys.
The Altroz has its hits and misses in a well-cushioned seat but a backrest that’s a touch too upright. Headroom is also adequate but no more. You’ll be content with how much luggage you can fit in to these cars’ boots. Volume-wise, the Altroz tops the charts with 345 litres to the Baleno and Glanza’s 318 litres and i20’s 311 litres.
All models offer the option to fold down the rear seat backrests to make more space, though only the Baleno and Glanza offer the flexibility of 60:40 split seats.
Do note, loading heavy suitcases into the Baleno and Glanza takes most effort due to their high loading lips and low boot floors.
In consideration, here are the automatic gearbox versions of the four contenders. To give an overview of the engines and gearboxes, the Baleno and Glanza feature a 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol mated to a 5-speed automated manual transmission or AMT; the Tata Altroz pairs a 1.2-litre, three-cylinder petrol to a 6-speed dual-clutch transmission, while the i20 featured here comprises a 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol and CVT (continuously variable transmission) combo. Notably, the i20 is also available with a more powerful 1.0-litre, three-cylinder, turbo-petrol engine and 7-speed dual-clutch gearbox, but that version’s a whole lot pricier too.
Anyone familiar with the last-gen Baleno auto and/or Glanza auto and their smooth CVTs will be in for some disappointment in the latest models. And that’s largely down to the shift to an AMT arrangement. Sure, gentle inputs are catered to admirably with smooth enough gearshifts but press a bit harder on the accelerator pedal and you’ll often find the system doesn’t quite get what you want of it. The gearbox tends to fumble and the pause between shifts and resulting ‘head nod’ takes away from the experience. In fact, we found ourselves taking over gearshifts via manual mode more often than we’d have liked. AMTs might have come a long way but this test alone has established there’s still a huge gap to the more sophisticated transmissions out there. In terms of engine performance too, some of the zing of the last-gen models is missing. That said, Suzuki’s new 90hp and 113Nm K12N engine allows easy progress and scores well on refinement as well.
While the gearbox is a sore point in the Baleno and Glanza, it’s the engine that’s the weak link in the Altroz package. Performance is reasonable for the urban grind but unimpressive in faster scenarios, reflected in its relatively slow kickdown acceleration times.
The build of power is flat and you really have to work the 86hp and 113Nm engine to get the most out of it. Trouble is, the engine gets noisy when you do so and the three-cylinder thrum fills up the cabin. For its part, the dual-clutch transmission is smooth and responsive to accelerator inputs, even if it’s not as quick on the draw (in manual mode too) as a Volkswagen DSG unit. We also found the Altroz to be easiest in crawling traffic with a well-calibrated creep mode.
The surprise of the test was the i20 CVT. Where the last-gen i20 CVT was dull to drive, the new i20 CVT feels like an accomplished city car. The 88hp and 114Nm engine is smooth and quiet, and performance is pleasant. It’s not a quick car per se, but you’ll appreciate the ready access to power. The CVT (IVT in Hyundai speak) is well in tune with power requirements and that ‘rubberband’ effect (revs rising faster than road speed) CVTs are notorious for is largely restricted to pedal-to-the-metal driving only. It’s reasonable fun to work through the six steps of the gearbox in manual mode too. The i20 CVT is not only better to drive than its rivals here but, as a city car, also feels nicer than the pricier i20 Turbo-DCT.
Performance is one thing. How do these cars deliver on the all-important matter of fuel economy? It’s the Baleno AMT and Glanza AMT that score big in this area, with an official ARAI-rated economy of 22.94kpl. Real-world city economy is in the 12-14kpl band, and can be maximised with switchable auto stop/start that’s part of the package on the duo. The i20 IVT (19.6kpl ARAI) and Altroz DCA (18.18kpl ARAI) aren’t quite as efficient, delivering real-world city economy in the 9-12kpl band.
PerformanceToyota Glanza 1.2P V AMTMaruti Suzuki Baleno 1.2P Alpha AMTHyundai i20 1.2P iVT Asta(O)Tata Altroz 1.2P XZ+ DCAPERFORMANCEAcceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)Acceleration (from rest)0-20kph1.81s1.81s1.76s1.80s0-40kph3.53s3.53s4.00s4.02s0-60kph6.91s6.91s6.66s6.86s0-80kph9.72s9.72s10.25s10.62s0-100kph14.92s14.92s15.23s17.08s0-120kph21.24s21.24s23.07s25.43sACCELERATION IN GEAR20-80 (kickdown)8.55s8.55s8.15s9.11s40-100 (kickdown)11.93s11.93s11.11s13.25sGlanza vs Baleno vs i20 vs Altroz: ride and handling
As a baseline, each of these cars offer good driving comfort, with easy to twirl steerings and nice ride quality.
The Baleno and Glanza feel the cushiest at low speeds and smoothen out bad roads better than the others do. There’s an improvement in steering feel too, (versus the last gen cars) with a stronger return to centre action. High speed manners are decent as well, though frequent highway goers will find the most suitable match in the Tata Altroz.
The Tata feels the most surefooted at high speeds, handling is keen and the slick steering is the nicest too. That tough build also subconsciously adds to confidence levels. In slower settings, the relatively firm set Altroz can’t filter out the bumps (or road noise) as well as the others, but when the road deteriorates entirely, it’s the Tata that, once again, shines with a rugged side that the others don’t have.
The i20 is closer to the Baleno and Glanza in its city-biased manners, with a suspension that rounds off the bumps well. The i20 makes for an able highway car as well, exhibiting good stability and tidy, if unexciting, handling.
Before we give our pick, it’s prudent to talk prices. The Baleno AMT (available in three trims) has the lowest starting price of Rs 7.83 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi), while the range-topping Alpha trim featured here comes in at Rs 9.71 lakh. The Toyota Glanza AMT is marginally pricier (Rs 7.93 lakh- 9.90 lakh) but also packs in a longer 3 year/1,00,000km warranty, versus the Baleno’s 2 year/40,000km standard warranty.
Tata Altroz DCA (available in three trims) prices start at Rs 8.29 lakh and top off at Rs 9.79 lakh, with all-black Dark versions commanding an additional Rs 20,000. You’ll find three options for clutch pedal-free comfort in the i20 line-up, with intelligent manual transmission (iMT), CVT (aka IVT) and dual-clutch transmissions (DCT) on offer. The i20 IVT in focus here is offered in two variants, with the Sportz trim priced at Rs 8.95 lakh and the fully-loaded Asta(O), the most expensive car, at Rs 10.56 lakh. So, which one should it be?
The dual-clutch transmission has added ease of use to the Altroz’s well-established list of strengths that include a tough build, confident manners, practicality and, of course, that striking design. If you are shopping within the Altroz range alone, it’s the DCA that we’d recommend. However, as a premium hatchback, the Altroz still falls short on account of its insipid petrol engine and the lack of wow features.
Price and VerdictToyota GlanzaMaruti Suzuki BalenoHyundai i20Tata AltrozVariant1.2P V AMT1.2P Alpha AMT1.2P iVT Asta (O)1.2P XZ+ DCAPrice (ex-showroom, Delhi)Rs 9.90 lakhRs 9.71 lakhRs 10.56 lakhRs 9.79 lakhVerdictIt’s a Baleno in every which way. Toyota badge could be a lure for many buyers.Efficient, well equipped and upmarket but feels best when paired with a manual gearbox.The best of the auto hatchbacks. More sensible pick than i20 Turbo-DCT too.Tough Tata has its strengths. Lags in performance and features though.Rating8/108/108/107/10
Maruti’s Baleno and Toyota’s Glanza have wider appeal. Their long list of features will resonate with new-age buyers and the duo also address the age-old concern of ‘kitna deti hai?’ with class-best fuel economy numbers. They also build on the practicality of their predecessors with enhanced quality all around. The spoiler here is the AMT gearbox that’s just not fitting in a car of this class or price point. In fact, you might just prefer the manual versions to these AMTs. As for the question of Baleno or Glanza? Both cars are fundamentally the same, and your decision should hinge on styling preference or even proximity to a dealer/service centre.
As for the i20 IVT, top-spec versions are expensive by class standards, but for many features like a sunroof and Bose sound system make it worth the stretch. What also makes your money feel well spent is that the i20’s got the best engine-gearbox combo and offers the most polished drive.
That the i20 is also the roomiest car only helps its case. The i20 is premium in price but also most premium in experience, and that’s why it’s our pick.
Also read:
Jeep Meridian vs Toyota Fortuner comparison
Copyright (c) Autocar India.All rights reserved.
tata-nexon
Mahindra has thoroughly updated the XUV400 and also revised its prices. But is that enough to beat the bestselling Tata Nexon EV?
We’re comparing the MahindraXUV400and TataNexon EVfor the third time in just one year, which reflects the rapid pace at which these EVs are evolving. In May 2023, we pitted the fresh-out-of-factory Mahindra XUV400 against the pre-facelift Tata Nexon EV Max. The winner?  It wasTata’selectric SUV, asMahindraleft some scope for improvement in the XUV400’s drivability and equipment list. A few months later, the XUV400 was introduced with key features like ESP, however, the Nexon EV’s substantial updates boosted its desirability exponentially, which is why it also won round two of our comparison.
In 2024, Mahindra gave the XUV400 its most significant enhancement to date, and now, with feature additions and a redesigned interior, the Indian carmaker seems to have upped its game. To further sweeten the deal, Mahindra has revised prices too, and the top-spec XUV400 is priced at Rs 17.49 lakh, nearly Rs 1.80 lakh more affordable than a fully loaded Tata Nexon EV. With all its improvements and substantial price advantage, can the XUV400 be third time lucky and swing the game in its favour?
The two EVs follow very different design philosophies and seem to cater to different customers. In this company, the XUV400 comes across as conventionally styled, but it has its share of sculpted lines and sharp edges to give it a butch character. Further, healthy dollops of copper colour add flair to its exteriors. What also works in its favour is its size; it is larger in every dimension and has a longer wheelbase compared to the Nexon EV.
The Tata Nexon EV embraces a more futuristic approach and has a jazzier persona with distinct design cues, coupe-like roofline and harmonious curves. The animated connected LED lights create a vibrant appeal. Overall, the Nexon EV’s sharper styling lends it a more modern outlook and complements its relatively more premium price tag.
The talking points of the 2024 XUV400 are its new interiors. Gone is the all-black theme, which was exclusive to the EV, and in comes a two-tone, ivory-and-black colour scheme (like the XUV300), which not only looks more upmarket than before, but also accentuates the cabin’s sense of space and airiness. Replacing the analogue dials is a new neatly executed digital instrument cluster. The horizontally oriented touchscreen is larger than before, it is feature-packed and feels great to use too. Its new steering is reminiscent of the XUV700’s unit. And Mahindra has finally redesigned the dated centre console, which is a buttoned panel for the dual-zone climate control, and looks much better than before; similar to the Scorpio-N’s in design.
Dual-tone colour scheme, copper inserts on the XUV400 look upmarket and enhance cabin’s sense of space and airiness.
Like before, the XUV400’s cabin is well built, the seats are comfy with soft cushioning and adequate support, and between the two cars, the XUV’s has the more agreeable driving position and better all-round visibility. Those sitting at the back will appreciate the space on offer and on account of its wider cabin, even a third passenger can be accommodated here quite easily. For the comfort of rear seat passengers, Mahindra has finally included rear air-con vents as well as charging provisions, which were missing earlier. The XUV400 also gets a more voluminous 378-litre boot; curiously, it misses a parcel shelf, which is a bare minimum these days.
The combination of colours, textures, big screen and illuminated steering on the Nexon EV certainly have a wowing effect.
But while the XUV400’s dashboard has been modified using some bits from other Mahindras, the Nexon EV’s interior is completely new, and is the one that makes a stronger first impression. The combination of its colours, textures, big screen and illuminated steering certainly have a wowing effect. Touch-operable keys dominate this space to give the cabin a cleaner and more modern appearance; appreciably there are toggle switches to adjust basic functions like cabin temperature and fan speed. Cabin ergonomics, however, aren’t as user-friendly as the XUV400’s, blind spots are greater and even storage areas aren’t as generous or well-designed. And while the Nexon’s seat cushioning is a touch firmer, comfort is enhanced by its very handy front seat ventilation feature. Space at the rear isn’t as generous and a higher floor results in a slightly knees-up seating position.


